VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
UNIT 1 actually live. Suzie, when you travelled, did
 you see any interesting or strange homes
 The Grand Canal
 around the world?
 This is Venice, Italy. It is full of fantastic palaces
 Suzie: Well, it depends what you mean
 and, of course, a lot of canals.
 by strange. I live in a detatched house, so
 There are 117 little islands between the canals the apartment buildings in New York, for
 and 400 bridges. Historically, Venice is an example, seem pretty strange to me.
 important city for art and business. But these
 James: I really mean places that very few
 days, most people know it as a popular tourist
 people know about …
 centre.
 Suzie: Oh, I see … erm. Well, when I was on
 The Grand Canal is the largest canal in Venice.
 holiday last year in Peru, I saw a really old
 It’s more than two miles long. It’s Venice’s
 city made out of mud. You could say that is
 busiest road, but you won’t see cars here.
 interesting.
 Instead, you’ll see a kind of boat called
 James: Yes, that is very interesting! And so are
 the gondola.
 the cave houses at a place called Matmata.
 At one time, there was probably a river here,
 Suzie: Matmata? Is that in Egypt?
 but the Grand Canal is man-made. The palaces
 and other buildings are on stilts – long legs James: No, it’s in Tunisia. Take a look at the
 that go deep into the ground under the canal. picture. You might recognize it from the Star
 Wars films. They filmed some of the scenes
 A gondola ride takes about half an hour. It’s
 there because the cave houses look strange,
 one of the best 30 minutes you can spend in
 like maybe they aren’t real. But actually, these
 your life.
 houses in the caves are real. People started
 Here is the Ca’ d’Oro, one of Venice’s most
 living in them 700 years ago. They made them
 beautiful palaces. It was built in the 15th
 out of the rock.
 century and was then decorated with gold.
 Suzie: Wow! That’s ancient! Where is
 And this is the Rialto Bridge, the oldest bridge
 it exactly?
 across the Grand Canal. It’s made of stone and
 James: It’s about 355 kilometres south of the
 for nearly 300 years, it was the only way to
 capital, Tunis. I’d love to go there. Actually,
 cross the Grand Canal on foot.
 when I was younger I went to Cappadocia in
 No wonder two of Venice’s nicknames are
 Turkey. It was fantastic! There are cave houses
 ‘The City of Bridges’ and ‘The Bride of the Sea’.
 there, too. It’s in Anatolia, in the centre of
 1.1 Turkey. Take a look.
 place Suzie: The buildings look like mushrooms!
 hot James: Interesting place, isn’t it? The caves
 quick formed from rock more than 8,000 years ago.
 up People changed them into homes during
 the Roman period. Some people still live
 1.2 there now.
James: Welcome to the Travel Podcast. I’m Suzie: Now? That’s amazing. But did you know
 James. I’m here with Suzie and today we’re that some people live on bridges? Look at
 looking at unusual places where people these two photos.
 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 201
 James: Oh yeah. This one is beautiful and it and land. Vancouver has the best parts of
 looks very old. It’s in Italy, isn’t it? Is it Rome? green forests and city life. I would like to talk
 Suzie: Well, it is in Italy. It’s called the Ponte about some of the history of Vancouver
 Vecchio, but it’s actually in Florence, north as well as some of the advantages and
 of Rome. They built the bridge in 1345. There disadvantages of this ‘green’ city.
 was another bridge there before, but an Vancouver originally was a place where the
 accident destroyed it. So they made this one native people of the area lived and traded for
 and people started to live there. It’s amazing, thousands of years before Europeans came to
 isn’t it? live there in the 1800s. Then in 1886, at the first
 James: Yes, it is. But the bridge in the other city meeting, the people of Vancouver asked
 picture looks newer. the national government to give the city 1,000
 Suzie: Yeah, that’s Neft Dashlari in Azerbaijan. acres to use as a park. They got the land from
 James: Where? the government and started Stanley Park. This
 Suzie: Azerbaijan. You know – was the start of Vancouver becoming a green
 A-Z-E-R-B-A-I-J-A-N. city with many parks and beautiful views. But
 being a green city with lots of parks has both
 James: Oh, of course. The bridge looks really
 advantages and disadvantages.
 long and it looks like it has a lot of factories.
 Do a lot of people work there? First of all, let’s look at some of the positives.
 Obviously, Stanley Park is a large park. In
 Suzie: Yes, they drill for oil from under the sea
 fact, because it is located in the city of
 there. They decided that the workers needed
 Vancouver, it is the third largest urban park in
 somewhere to live, so they built a kind of
 North America. It has many gardens, walking
 ‘city’ above the sea. The bridge is about
 paths, trees and even animals, such as bald
 48 kilometres long. They put houses, libraries,
 eagles, coyotes and seals. As we know, lots
 schools and even a cinema there.
 of trees help clean the city air. Also, lots of
 James: Really? So, hundreds of people
 parks give people many places to walk, so
 live there?
 they’re healthier. Since Vancouver is near the
 Suzie: About 2,000 people live there. It even mountains and the ocean, people can enjoy
 appeared in a James Bond film. the outdoors easily during the warm, sunny
 James: Well, it makes my house look summers. When people go to Stanley Park,
 really boring! they can enjoy ancient trees as they walk near
 Suzie: Mine, too! the ocean or they can have fun by Beaver
 Lake, which, like Stanley Park, helps make
 1.3
 Vancouver one of the healthiest and cleanest
 Teacher: OK, everyone. Today we are talking cities in the world.
 about interesting places. I’d also like to talk about some disadvantages
 I’d like to talk about the city of Vancouver, of parks in Vancouver. Space in a city is very
 in British Columbia, Canada. It’s one of the important. Having many parks means that
 most beautiful cities in the world. We often people have less space to build houses and
 think cities are urban areas, with traffic and apartments. Because Vancouver is located
 modern buildings. We don’t usually think between the mountains and the ocean,
 cities have woods, lakes and fields. But there’s not much room for new buildings.
 Vancouver is a ‘green city’ – a place that’s This makes Vancouver an expensive city. Also,
 good to live in because it has clean air, water

202 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 when you have a beautiful place to live, a lot 4 Finally, while I think these disadvantages mean
 of people want to go there. This makes the that some people would not want to visit
 city crowded. Actually, Vancouver has very Vancouver, I personally feel that most people
 bad traffic. Lastly, when you have a lot of would enjoy Vancouver.
 parks, wild animals in the parks can sometimes
 1.6
 be a problem. For example, Stanley Park gives
 information to people about what to do I’d like to talk about the city of Vancouver, in
 if they see a coyote. In my opinion, having British Columbia, Canada.
 coyotes in a city park is bad.
 1.7
 Finally, while I think these disadvantages might
 mean that some people would not want to First of all, let’s look at some of the positives.
 visit Vancouver, I personally feel that most
 UNIT 2
 people would enjoy Vancouver. In my opinion,
 being close to nature and having a healthy city Harbin’s ice festival
 are worth paying a little more money for. And Narrator: This is Harbin in China, also known
 a lot of people agree with this idea because as ‘the Ice City’. Every winter, for over
 Vancouver is a very popular place to visit and 30 years, Harbin has held an ice festival.
 live in. So I would recommend that people These days tourists from all over the world
 visit Vancouver and enjoy the many parks, the come to visit.
 clean, healthy city and the interesting sights. It takes 7,000 people working together
 to build the ice city. There are large snow
 1.4 sculptures and full-size buildings.
1 Obviously, Stanley Park is a large park. They cut ice bricks from the frozen Songhua
2 In fact, because it is located in the city of River. But for some sculptures they need
 Vancouver, it is the third largest urban park in clear bricks that look like glass. The clear
 North America. bricks are made for the festival using very
3 As we know, lots of trees help clean the pure water. This stops air bubbles from
 city air. freezing into the ice.
4 Finally, while I think these disadvantages might In the day time, visitors can see the snow
 mean that some people would not want to sculptures at ‘Sun Island’. They can also watch
 visit Vancouver, … the artists at work or, for visitors who want to
5 … I personally feel that most people would make their own sculptures, there are classes
 enjoy Vancouver. and competitions.
6 In my opinion, being close to nature and At night, the buildings of ‘Ice and Snow World’
 having a healthy city are worth paying a little light up with a rainbow of colours. There
 more money for. are ice castles, ice skyscrapers and ice slides,
 which are very popular with children.
 1.5 Harbin is in the northeast of China where cold
1 I’d like to talk about the city of Vancouver, in winds from Siberia bring them an average
 British Columbia, Canada. winter temperature of minus 16.8 °C – the
2 First of all, let’s look at some of the positives. perfect temperature to build from ice and
3 I’d also like to talk about some disadvantages snow. The freezing temperatures do not keep
 of parks in Vancouver. the visitors away. This year over a million


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 203
 people are expected to come. Besides 1642 and 1651. It was really interesting!
 exploring the ice city, visitors can play ice Yesterday, I played games to find out
 sports and games and see amazing firework about gravity. It was a science activity. And
 shows. The festival opens on the fifth of tomorrow, I’m going to a talk on the global
 January each year and stays open for at least economy, which I’m sure will really make me
 four weeks and often much longer – until the think!
 spring comes and the Ice City melts away for Reporter 1: Are there any things you don’t like
 another year. about it? Are you ever bored?
 Judith: Not really. The only problem is that it’s
 2.1
 really crowded!
 Reporter 1: Today I’m at the Festival of Reporter 1: Judith, like many others, is really
 Ideas, which has been held in the UK every enjoying the Festival of Ideas. Nowadays
 October since 2008. It’s a free festival with around the world, there are many festivals,
 lots of activities, organized by the University often based on nature, food or culture. Take
 of Cambridge. But it isn’t just for students. the Cherry Blossom Festival in Japan, for
 Anyone interested in arts and science example. In Tokyo, the capital of Japan, the
 can go to the lectures, talks, classes and cherry blossom festival is held in early April.
 performances. The festival gets bigger and It is an important festival celebrating nature.
 bigger every year; the first year, 7,000 people The actual dates change every year, because
 attended, but by the third year that number the celebration happens only when the trees
 had almost doubled. We asked one of the have cherry blossoms. So, it is a little different
 visitors about the festival. from a festival that has the same date every
 Hello, there. Can you introduce yourself and year and it’s not organized in the same way
 tell me, is this your first time at the festival as many other festivals. Our reporter Mike
 here in Cambridge? Pearce went to Tokyo to find out.
 Judith: My name is Judith, and no, I come here Reporter 2: Today, I am talking with Yuki.
 every year! She sells food during the cherry blossom
 Reporter 1: Can you tell us why you like festival in Ueno Park in Tokyo. Hi, Yuki.
 coming to the festival? Yuki: Hi. Welcome to the cherry blossom
 Judith: Well, it’s an interesting event to come festival!
 to. It’s great for kids and adults. I enjoy Reporter 2: Thanks. So, what happens here?
 learning about all the new ideas people have Yuki: Well, as you can see, it’s a cherry
 on important topics. We don’t get much time blossom festival. It is a celebration of spring
 to really think or learn about new things in and the cherry flowers. So, it doesn’t have
 everyday life, but you can do exactly that at specific activities that people do. Instead,
 this festival. people come to enjoy the cherry blossoms
 Reporter 1: So, what kinds of things do people and have a picnic under the trees. We have
 learn? Do people concentrate on learning just about a thousand trees, full of beautiful
 one thing? flowers.
 Judith: No, most people plan on going to Reporter 2: Do you have many people here
 several events. For example, today I learnt from other countries?
 some history. I went to a lecture about the Yuki: Yes. Our visitors are from all over the
 English Civil War, which happened between world. In addition to the cherry blossoms,

204 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 there are lots of food stalls and people can 2.2
 hire a boat to go around the lake too. There
 Well, it’s an interesting event to come to.
 are many beautiful, natural places here. Some
 people prefer to visit some of the park’s 2.3
 many museums, but I think Tokyo is one
 1 So, what kinds of things do people learn?
 of the best places to come for the cherry
 2 Are there any things you don’t like about it?
 blossom festival.
 3 Do you have many people here from
Reporter 2: Well, I hope you enjoy the rest of
 other countries?
 the event!
Reporter 1: Visiting such festivals is not just for 2.4
 entertainment; it’s also a fantastic way to find 1 Do you like your job?
 out about the culture of a different country.
 2 Are you a chef?
 I went to Oman in the Middle East recently to
 3 What time does the festival start?
 do just that.
 4 What kinds of food do you have?
 I’m here in Muscat at the festival of culture
 5 Is it all good?
 and heritage, talking to Nasrra. She is visiting
 6 Where do people eat their lunch?
 the Muscat Festival with her family. The event
 is held in January and February each year 7 Do you like the food?
 in Oman, and Nasrra has been coming for 8 Is the work interesting?
 the last couple of years. Hi, Nasrra. Are you 2.5
 enjoying the festival?
 Ali: Paul, you have cousins in the US, don’t
Nasrra: Yes! It’s wonderful!
 you? What’s your opinion? Which is the best
Reporter 1: Can you tell us something about
 North American holiday or celebration?
 the festival?
 Paul: Hmm. Well, I like Independence Day in
Nasrra: Of course. It’s a chance for people to
 the US because of the fireworks and New
 learn about the heritage and culture of Oman.
 Year’s Eve often has fireworks, too. But I think
Reporter 1: So, why are you here?
 the best holiday is Thanksgiving.
Nasrra: My mother and father want to watch
 Ali: Why do you like Thanksgiving?
 some of the sports; there was cycling last
 Paul: Everyone has something to be thankful
 year and also a camel race. You can also learn
 for, so everyone can celebrate it. Both the US
 traditional dance. But I decided to go to the
 and Canada celebrate it.
 fashion show.
 Ali: Really? How do people celebrate it?
Reporter 1: That sounds great.
 Paul: Well, most people get together with
Nasrra: Yeah. And after we finish watching
 family and friends and have a big meal.
 the races and shows, we’ll go and eat some
 Ali: What do they eat?
 traditional food.
 Paul: They usually eat a traditional meal. This is
Reporter 1: Sounds amazing! I hope you all
 usually a delicious turkey with stuffing for the
 have a great time.
 main dish. You should try it! Most traditional
 So these international festivals, with lots
 Thanksgiving meals have food which is
 of music, food and fashion, are providing a
 from the Americas, like potatoes, corn and
 different type of experience for people. Next
 cranberries. For dessert, they eat pumpkin pie,
 week, we’ll be looking at …
 but some people prefer different kinds of pie,
 like apple.
 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 205
 Ali: Is the food the same in both countries? autumn harvest. But Americans celebrate
 Paul: Actually, there are some differences the autumn harvest and remembering the
 in the food. In Canada, for example, the Native Americans helping settlers hunt and
 pumpkin pie is spicy, but in the US it’s sweet. grow food.
 I like the American style, with whipped Ali: That sounds like a lot of fun. I want
 cream. You have to try it! Another dish which to go to a Thanksgiving celebration in
 is different is the stuffing. For instance, in both countries!
 Canada stuffing is often made from rice or
 2.6
 bread, but in the southern US it could be
 made from cornbread. In the eastern US, 1 … some people prefer different kinds of pie,
 sometimes oysters are used in the stuffing. like apple.
 Ali: That all sounds delicious. Are there any 2 … people often decorate their dinner tables
 special decorations for Thanksgiving? and homes with things such as colourful
 Paul: Well, people often decorate their leaves, autumn vegetables and candles.
 dinner tables and homes with things such 3 For example, both countries celebrate with
 as colourful leaves, autumn vegetables and parades with marching bands and people
 candles. The decorations usually have autumn in costumes.
 colours, like red, yellow and orange. 4 Well, for instance, in Canada, the holiday is
 Ali: Do people give gifts or do some special celebrated on the second Monday in October.
 activities?
 Paul: Well, people don’t really give gifts, but
 UNIT 3
 there are some special activities. For example, Fibre optic cables
 both countries celebrate with parades with In the middle of the ocean, deep underwater,
 marching bands and people in costumes. It’s violent volcanic activity changes the
 also traditional to watch sport on TV. ocean floor.
 ALi: It sounds like the celebration is almost the Usually we don’t know anything about this –
 same in both countries. until the internet stops working.
 Paul: Well, there are some differences 99% of all internet traffic between continents
 between Canadian and American goes through cables at the bottom of the
 Thanksgiving. ocean.
 Ali: Like what? But sometimes there are problems. For
 Paul: Well, for instance, in Canada, the example, ten years ago nine important fibre
 holiday is celebrated on the second Monday optic cables on the ocean floor between
 in October. But in the US it’s on the fourth Taiwan and the Philippines suddenly
 Thursday in November. Another difference went dead.
 is that in Canada people enjoy small, local Computers all over Asia crashed. Engineers
 parades. In the US they have a huge parade looked for the problem and they found that
 in New York City and people all over the US the cables were broken.
 watch it on TV. Volcanic activity caused heavy rocks to move
 People in the New York parade sometimes and break the cables.
 wear costumes. One last difference is that Suddenly, many people in Southeast Asia
 each country has different reasons for the couldn’t use the internet. What would happen
 holiday. In Canada the holiday celebrates the

206 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 to businesses? It took weeks to find and repair robots are coming into our lives in other ways.
 the cables. In Japan, Thailand and Hong Kong, for example,
 Engineers used this special ship, called there are robot waiters in restaurants and
 the Wave Sentinel. Its job is to keep the in South Korea a robot is used as an English
 internet connected. teacher. Robots weren’t used very much in the
 past, since they were always really expensive.
 3.1 But because they have become cheaper, they
 disabled save are being used in new and interesting ways.
 fish shave One key area is the way robots can help with
 kitchen watch medical care.
 suit wash Host: Can you explain that a little more?
 pollution Professor: Well, a good example is the robotic
 suit for disabled people. Robots can now
 3.2 assist people who can’t walk. They can help
1 station 6 robots them to move again. People ‘wear’ the robot,
2 sort 7 match like clothes. The robot then helps move the
3 short 8 ocean person’s arms or legs. For example, one man,
4 wish Joey Abbica, couldn’t walk because of an
 9 accident
 accident at work three years earlier. Before
5 which 10 cheap
 the accident, Joey could surf really well. In
 3.3 fact, he won lots of competitions, but after
1 sorts 4 sea the accident he couldn’t walk at all. He wasn’t
 even able to sit up on his own when a visitor
2 cheap 5 shave
 came. And he couldn’t even feel his legs when
3 wash
 doctors touched them. But when he put on
 3.4 the robotic suit, he was able to stand up and
 walk on his own again. He isn’t able to walk at
Host: Welcome to University Radio, the
 all without the suit. Robotics changed his life.
 station run by students for students. I’m Chen
 Hu and this is Science Today. Our subject is Host: So people have a much better quality of
 technological development and our guest life, thanks to these new types of robots?
 is Professor Joanne Kent, expert in robotics. Professor: Yes, that’s right. Service robots are
 Thanks for coming in, Professor. When we also very helpful to people.
 think of robots, we generally think of science Host: What do service robots do?
 fiction films. Is this out of date? Professor: Well, one of the reasons that
Professor: Yes, it is. Technology has developed service robots were invented is to save people
 very fast over the last ten years and robots are time. They do all the jobs around the house
 part of everyday life. Robots can now do many that people find difficult, dirty or boring.
 important things. For instance, robots can put clothes into a
Host: What kinds of things? washing machine, and plates and cups into a
Professor: Well, they have been used in dishwasher and they can clean your kitchen
 factories for years; Japan and China have the and bathroom. But for some people, service
 most industrial robots in the world. But now robots are really important; they’re not just


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 207
 a luxury. Elderly people, for example, can’t questions. They found that what we think
 always do housework easily. They might need when we hear difficult questions has changed
 help from robots. The robot means they are because of websites like Google™. When
 able to stay in their own homes for longer. people were asked difficult questions in the
 Host: So, robots can help people in their past, scientists believe they tried to think of
 everyday life, but how do they help the answer to the question. However, because
 more generally? of modern technology, the first thing people
 Professor: Robots are now solving modern think about now is how to find the answer;
 problems, too. Have you heard of robotic fish? they don’t try to answer it themselves.
 Host: I haven’t, but I assume they are robots For example, they think about what they
 that swim in water. What do they do? might put into Google™, but in the past they
 Professor: They were developed to help thought about the question itself.
 scientists with information collection. They Second, scientists found that computers
 look like fish, they swim and move like other have changed the type of information
 fish, but when they are swimming, they can we remember. There are advantages
 collect information about the amount of and disadvantages to these changes. A
 pollution in the water. Scientists can find disadvantage is that it seems that people
 out about pollution quickly, due to the now forget facts, especially if they know
 robotic fish. the information will be saved in a file. On
 Host: Well, we’ve heard of robots that clean the other hand, an advantage is that they
 your house, so it’s good to know they can remember the location of the fact: in other
 help keep the environment clean, too. OK, words, where to find it. In one test, scientists
 we have some questions coming in, so let’s told university students some facts and also
 hear the first one … where the facts were saved in a file. Most of
 the students couldn’t remember the facts, but
 3.5 they were able to remember the files and the
 1 You will hear the main ideas and some location of the facts.
 additional information. In conclusion, it seems that computers are not
 2 You will hear the main ideas as well as some making us stupid, but they are making us lazy!
 additional information. Scientists believe that we are spending time
 remembering where and how we can find
 3.6 things, but we’re not trying to remember the
 News reporter: For a long time, people have information itself anymore.
 asked the same question: Do computers
 3.7
 stop us from learning and developing? Do
 they make us stupid? A recent study at 1 When people were asked difficult questions
 Columbia University in New York looked at in the past, scientists believe they tried to
 this question, in particular how computers think of the answer to the question. However,
 affect our memory. They wanted to find because of modern technology, the first thing
 out if computers have changed the way we people think about now is how to find the
 remember information. answer …
 First, the scientists did research on what
 happens when people are asked difficult


208 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
2 For example, they think about what they 4.1
 might put into Google™, but in the past they
 1 A: Did you know global warming is
 thought about the question itself.
 still increasing?
3 … it seems that people now forget facts,
 B: Is it?
 especially if they know the information will
 2 A: It’s my birthday today.
 be saved in a file. On the other hand, an
 advantage is they remember the location of B: Really? Happy birthday!
 the fact: in other words, where to find it. 3 A: The weather got really chilly, didn’t it?
4 In conclusion, it seems that computers are not B: I suppose so.
 making us stupid, but they are making us lazy! 4 A: Thanks for inviting me to your party!
 B: You’re welcome. It’ll be nice to see you!
UNIT 4 5 A: Dinner was great.
 The impact of oceans on climate B: Good. Glad you liked it.
 Water covers almost 70% of the Earth. But it
 doesn’t just stay in the same place.
 4.2
 Like the air above it, the water in the oceans Sergio: So we need to think of some
 moves around the planet. It moves because questions for this survey about the weather,
 the Earth is spinning and this has a big effect Murat. Should we make a list of them?
 on our climate. Murat: I think we should decide what we
 The spinning of the Earth causes large circles want to find out. Professor Hadland told us
 of currents in the oceans. These circular we should look at all the different things we
 currents are called ‘ocean gyres’. North of the could survey, group them and then try to
 equator, they move clockwise. South of the choose the most important ones.
 equator, they move in the opposite direction. Sergio: Right. Effects of weather on mood.
 These gyres move water and heat. That’s why Murat: Well, we’re looking at weather in
 they are important to our climate. northern Europe where it is often cold and
 Ocean currents move lots of energy and heat wet. Generally, in northern Europe people
 away from the equator. This changes our see sunshine as positive, which I find strange.
 climate. For example, warmer water from the In my country, it’s hot all the time, so we like
 equator moves thousands of miles north. The cool days. But anyway … I read some research
 result is warmer weather there. about weather and moods in Sweden. I
 South of the equator, ocean gyres are really enjoyed reading it, but it had so many
 also important. They move cooler water different answers it wasn’t clear that weather
 north along the west coast of Chile in changes people’s mood.
 South America. Sergio: Oh … great …
 This water has lots of food in it, so it’s a Murat: But they did find some specific results.
 perfect place for fish to live. In fact, 20% of They noticed that good, dry, sunny weather
 the fish we catch for food comes from this didn’t make people happier. But bad weather
 small part of the ocean. made people more upset, if they were already
 Without these ocean gyres, our world would unhappy.
 be a very different place. Sergio: And … ?


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 209
 Murat: And, therefore, unhappy people felt Murat: I see what you mean. We could choose
 even worse when it was wet and windy. either of those. I’m not sure about the bad
 Sergio: Oh, OK. So for the ‘good weather’ weather one. It’s a bit depressing, isn’t it?
 category – no link. But for the ‘bad weather’ Which do you prefer?
 part – it causes unhappy people to feel worse. Sergio: I don’t really care.
 Murat: Yes. And the amount of sunlight seems Murat: Well, if you don’t care, let’s do the one
 to be linked to feeling tired. When it is sunny, about sunshine and having energy. It’s more
 people have more energy and are less tired. positive.
 So they like doing more things outside.
 4.3
 Sergio: OK, I’ve added that.
 Murat: Also, I read something about humid Murat: … and so I put all the results into a
 weather. Another experiment showed that spreadsheet on my laptop. Here are all the
 really humid weather changes how people answers from the surveys I did, 12 of them. Oh
 work. When it is humid, they might plan to and the three surveys that you did.
 study at a different time. Or maybe they Sergio: OK … let’s see what they say.
 might stop studying and take a break when Murat: We asked how people felt when they
 they begin having difficulties. As a result, it woke up on a sunny day.
 is more difficult to work and it’s hard to pay Sergio: And?
 attention. And there was something about Murat: Fourteen out of fifteen people said
 heat and anger. Really hot weather can make they feel better in sunny weather than when
 people angrier, I think. it is very wet or rainy. They prefer sunshine.
 Sergio: Are you sure? Should I add it? Sergio: OK.
 Murat: Well, write it down anyway. Murat: And 13 of them said it made them feel
 Sergio: OK, which area do you think we should they could get a lot done that day. Also, 12
 look at then? out of 15 people said that they did more when
 Murat: I think the humid one is important. the weather was good.
 Especially for students. Sergio: What about when they feel most
 Sergio: But the one on bad weather making tired?
 people feel worse could be interesting, too; Murat: Well, everyone said that they felt tired
 it sounds like there are more useful facts with if the weather was cloudy and dark. And 14
 that topic. said they had the most energy when there
 Murat: Yes, true. I’m not sure about the was lots of light.
 really hot weather and being angry; I can’t Sergio: So, good weather means that people
 remember if that’s true. So let’s leave that have more energy.
 out. That leaves three possible topics – humid Murat: Yeah, that is what our survey seems
 weather stops us working, sunny weather to show. Of course, it might be different in
 makes us less tired or bad weather makes another country. Maybe it depends on the
 people feel worse. place you live.
 Sergio: Hmm, the one about humid weather
 looks at how people study. It isn’t really about
 how people feel, so it isn’t useful for us. I’d go
 with bad weather or sunny weather.


210 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 4.4 Biju is going to present information about the
 forests next week. He hopes to get people
Reporter: Global warming is an important
 interested in saving this frog and other animals
 issue around the world. Recently it has created
 that live in rainforests. During the next week,
 problems in the Western Ghats rainforests
 many people are meeting to talk about the
 of India. Forests are important for slowing
 climate and saving the rainforests. According
 down global warming because of the work
 to Biju, we need to plan now or we will
 that trees do for us. Trees are global cleaners.
 probably lose some species completely. If we
 They take in carbon dioxide (CO2), the gas that
 don’t think carefully about the climate of
 heats the atmosphere. So, we keep making
 the forests, the purple frog possibly won’t be
 global warming worse every time we cut
 around for much longer. On to the weather
 down trees. Then global warming continues
 report now …
 to damage the forest. More trees disappear
 because the changes in temperature stop 4.5
 the normal growth of the forest. Nowadays,
 1 It is more difficult to work in high humidity, so
 rainforests get less rain and this is changing the
 our concentration drops.
 way they work.
 2 People have more energy in sunny weather.
 Governments around the world are
 Therefore, they can get a lot done if the sun is
 beginning to work on the problem. Although
 shining.
 governments say they will stop people
 3 Some countries are really hot and don’t get
 damaging the forests, scientists don’t think
 much rain. As a result, there isn’t enough water
 the work is happening quickly enough. The
 for people to drink.
 scientists say the forests are changing. The
 animals, and the plants that animals need, are UNIT 5
 changing. In fact, scientists believe 45% of the
 Kasparov versus Deep Blue
 forest areas are going to change completely in
 the next 80 years. Narrator: Humans began playing chess in
 northern India nearly 1,500 years ago. But
 This is where the purple frog becomes
 we only recently began competing against
 important. A report tells us that the frog is
 computers. Garry Kasparov is one of the
 in danger of disappearing forever. The frog
 greatest world chess champions in history. In
 can run very fast, makes a noise like a small
 the 1990s, he played a famous match against
 chicken and is one of the most unusual
 an IBM super computer. The computer’s
 animals in the world. Of course, for some
 name was Deep Blue. To play chess well, you
 people, the end of one type of frog is not
 need many different skills. But computers
 important. But it is for Sathyabhama Das
 can only calculate numbers. Kasparov started
 Biju, a researcher from Delhi University
 the first game. An engineer from IBM moved
 who discovered it in 2003. For him, the
 the chess pieces for Deep Blue. A chess
 problems of the purple frog show what global
 genius like Kasparov can think about three
 warming is doing to the Indian rainforests. He
 moves a second. But in that same second,
 explains that this interesting animal won’t be
 the computer is able to process 200 million
 around much longer if we don’t look after
 possible moves. Garry Kasparov played the
 the forests.
 first game very well. It took nearly four hours.
 In the end, the computer lost.


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 211
 Commentator: And Garry Kasparov has I mean chess and then do some boxing, and
 won the first game against Deep Blue in they continue doing each activity back and
 fantastic style. forth – alternating. The person who wins the
 Narrator: But the second game was different. boxing match or the chess game first is the
 Kasparov tried to trick Deep Blue into a champion. One benefit of this sport is that it
 mistake. But the computer didn’t make gives people a chance to compete physically
 a move. It was quiet for 15 minutes. It seemed and mentally. It isn’t just thinking or physical
 like the computer was thinking. It wasn’t activity; it’s both.
 tricked. Instead, it made a great move of Another sport that challenges people is urban
 its own. This time the human was losing to golf. Urban golf is similar to normal golf, but
 the machine. Kasparov tried to escape, but you don’t need to go to a golf course. You get
 he couldn’t. For the first time in history, a clubs and a golf ball – well, actually, it’s a soft
 computer beat the world chess champion. tennis ball instead of a hard golf ball. Then you
 Commentator: And Kasparov has resigned. can play in the street, which is why it’s called
 ‘urban’. If you play urban golf, you don’t need
 5.1 to go anywhere special or need much money
 1 The teacher’s name isn’t Mr Rosso. It’s to play. You just agree where you want to hit
 Mr Rosson. the ball, for example, at a sign in the street or
 2 I had a golf lesson, not a tennis lesson. a rubbish bin. On the other hand, intelligent
 3 The match is at 6:00 tonight, not 6:30, so players know that you may break something
 don’t be late. if you hit the ball too hard, so they try to play
 4 Yasmin doesn’t do Drama classes, she does fairly carefully.
 Gymnastics classes. Next, I’d like to talk about the Moroccan
 5 The competition will be in Colombia, not desert footrace, which is also called the
 in Brazil. Marathon des Sables or the Sahara Marathon.
 This race is held every year over a week or
 5.2 rather over six days. The runners have to be
 Amina: For my project I looked at some really strong. On the longest day, the runners
 unusual sports that people play around the have to run 92 kilometres. The best thing
 world. These aren’t team sports. Instead about it is that the champion can say he, or
 people compete to win individually. I’d like to she, has won the hardest marathon in the
 start by talking about ‘chess boxing’. You may world.
 already know about the two sports. Chess Finally, I’d like to look at sepak takraw. This
 is a game played with a board and different is a type of volleyball and is very popular in
 chess pieces. Very intelligent people often Southeast Asia. The players use a different
 play this game because players need to think kind of ball and they can use their feet to
 very carefully. Boxing is a totally different kick the ball or hit it with their knees, chest
 kind of sport, though. Being strong is more or head. The sport began in Indonesia and
 important because boxers have to hit each it – no, not Indonesia – it began in Malaysia,
 other. They wear gloves and helmets in the although it is also very popular in Thailand
 ring, but it’s still difficult. Now, chess boxing and Indonesia. One good thing about sepak
 is a new type of sport, where the players do takraw is that it is now played in schools in
 both activities. They start with boxing, sorry, many countries, including Japan and gets
 children to play sport.

212 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 5.3 Andre: Well, I would say that all athletes, even
 the rich and famous ones, are still very focused
1 Now, chess boxing is a new type of sport
 on the sport. Without the sport, they have
 where the players do both activities. They
 no job! And athletes who aren’t famous or
 start with boxing, sorry, I mean chess and then
 are only a little famous, deserve to make all
 do some boxing and they continue doing
 the money they can. Many athletes devote
 each activity back and forth – alternating.
 their whole lives to training. How can they live,
2 Urban golf is similar to normal golf, but you
 work and pay for coaching all by themselves?
 don’t need to go to a golf course. You get
 Being an athlete, especially one who doesn’t
 clubs and a golf ball – well, actually, it’s a soft
 get paid, is extremely expensive. The cost
 tennis ball instead of a hard golf ball.
 of training is really high and athletes need to
3 Next, I’d like to talk about the Moroccan spend a lot of time training to be good at a
 desert footrace, which is also called the sport.
 Marathon des Sables or the Sahara Marathon.
 So big companies might give money to
 This race is held every year over a week or
 sports teams and individual athletes to help
 rather over six days.
 them train. In some competitions, like the
4 Finally, I’d like to look at sepak takraw. This Olympics, there are both professional players
 is a type of volleyball and is very popular in and amateurs – you know, people who do
 Southeast Asia. The players use a different the sport as a hobby, and not as a job. I think
 kind of ball and they can use their feet to both should be able to get support from
 kick the ball or hit it with their knees, chest companies. Look at Novak Djokovic. He’s a
 or head. The sport began in Indonesia and Serbian tennis player who is paid money by
 it – no, not Indonesia – it began in Malaysia, a clothing company to wear their clothes
 although it is also very popular in Thailand and and be in their adverts. Other companies
 Indonesia. support him, too. Without all the help from
 5.4 companies, he might not have enough money
 to play tennis as his ‘job’. Having that time and
Ian: Andre, I know you played in a university
 money allows him to be such a good tennis
 football team in the US, so I’d like to ask your
 player!
 opinion about something. Do you think the
 Ian: But when a big company pays a team or
 Olympic athletes, and other athletes, like
 an athlete, it makes them wear the company
 football and tennis players, are too focused
 name and designs and they sign contracts …
 on getting money from companies? I went
 isn’t that really like being an employee and
 on holiday in the US last year and every time
 working for a company? To me, these athletes
 I turned on the TV, I saw a famous athlete in
 work in advertising and marketing!
 an advert for some product. Those athletes
 Andre: You have a point, but if the athletes
 are getting paid a huge amount of money
 don’t get good coaching, they might
 to be in adverts. It seems like the athletes
 not score a lot of points and do well in
 are more interested in making money than
 competitions. If that happens, they can lose
 in representing their countries. I think there
 their chance to make a lot of money after
 is definitely more marketing and business in
 the competitions are over. And actually, only
 sport than ever before. As a long-time sport
 about five percent of Olympic athletes get
 fan, I really think all this money and advertising
 money from big companies to be in adverts.
 from big companies is taking something away
 from sports and competitions.
 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 213
 Ian: That doesn’t sound fair. Shouldn’t countries UNIT 6
 pay their own athletes a salary to train? After
 Food in coffee shops
 all, they do represent the countries. I read that
 in the UK, the government pays the country’s Narrator: Starbucks and Costa Coffee are two
 Olympic athletes to train, so there is less of the biggest coffee shop chains in the world.
 pressure there to get money from a company. But in England, Caffè Nero is growing quickly
 Also, there are prizes for all the competitions and has now opened up its first American
 and sometimes that gives them extra money. stores in Boston, Massachusetts.
 Andre: Well, a lot of countries can’t pay the Gerry Ford: We didn’t look at Costa or
 costs for training athletes. And of course, the Starbucks and try to mimic them at all or do
 countries with lots of money can train their anything similar. And, for better or for worse,
 athletes very well. If companies are supporting we kind of marched to our own drum.
 lots of athletes, more people can participate in Narrator: Gerry Ford started Caffè Nero in
 competitions. London, but his stores use an Italian model.
 Ian: Still, I think all this money takes something Coffee is the most important item, but coffee
 away from the Olympics and other sporting shops only really do well if they can get their
 events. We see adverts almost everywhere! customers to spend money on food, like
 sandwiches and cookies.
 Andre: But being in an advert is a great
 opportunity for the athlete and the business. Gerry Ford: The driving force is the core
 If an athlete lets his or her face be on a cereal product of coffee and the craftsmanship and
 box or wears some clothing with a company’s the quality that goes into that, but the food
 name on it, people will probably buy the sort of complements that. We have 30% of
 product. So it’s good for the company and the our sales, um, are in food, which is higher than
 athlete gets more money to train. I also think either of the other two major brands and
 that all the adverts at big competitions like higher than most local independents.
 the Olympics or the World Cup help lower Narrator: Lunchtime at Caffè Nero stores is
 the ticket prices for fans, so the competitions always busy. At the London headquarters,
 don’t have to charge so much. It’s good for food consultant Ursula Ferrigno helps Caffè
 everyone! Nero give their food some real Italian flavour.
 Ian: Hmm … I’m not sure if I agree with you, but But what kind of food do customers want
 I understand your point. the most? In the end, this British company
 has found a successful business model
 5.5 selling Americanized Italian food and good
 1 I think there is definitely more marketing and quality coffee.
 business in sport than ever before. 6.1
 2 And actually, only about five percent of
 1 forty-eight percent
 Olympic athletes get money from big
 companies to be in adverts. 2 a half / one half
 3 And of course, the countries with lots of 3 a fifth / one fifth
 money can train their athletes very well. 4 thirty-one point five
 5 one hundred and three / one oh three
 6 one thousand, five hundred and forty
 7 six thousand and one
 8 nought point nought one
214 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 6.2 Prof. Gould: So, what are some effects of
 people not working very hard?
Prof. Gould: OK, Alika. Should we look at your
 Alika: Hmm … if people aren’t working hard,
 project now?
 companies don’t get what they are paying for.
Alika: Yes, OK.
 Prof. Gould: Can you give me some examples?
Prof. Gould: You’ve done a lot of reading for
 Alika: Well, when people don’t work hard,
 this, which is great. I can see you wrote a lot
 productivity goes down. Because productivity
 of information down.
 depends on how fast workers make things or
Alika: Yes, but I haven’t finished yet – I ran
 provide services, if workers are not working
 out of time. But I read as much as I could –
 hard, the company doesn’t make a profit.
 about 103 different reports. I took part in the
 Then they can’t pay higher salaries.
 discussions on this with students from my
 study group. I studied the way people work. 6.3
Prof. Gould: Good. Can you tell me what Joe: Hi, Sam. Good to see you again.
 you learnt?
 Sam: Hello, Joe.
Alika: Well, I looked at how people spend
 Joe: So, last time we met we talked about your
 time at work. I was interested in how people
 business goals. Was it useful?
 wasted time and why they didn’t work hard
 Sam: Useful? … Yeah, it was. You really made
 at their jobs; I mean, the reasons why they
 me think! But now I have a lot of stress about
 didn’t focus on their work. I found out a
 losing money.
 lot of interesting information. For example,
 Joe: Oh, yes? What is making you stressed
 almost half of the workers wasted time on
 about that?
 the internet. They were surfing the internet or
 writing personal emails. It was 48% of workers, Sam: Well, I realized how many weaknesses a
 in fact. 31.5% also said they spent time talking business can have! One careless mistake and
 to colleagues instead of working. And a little I could lose a lot of money.
 under half that amount, 15%, said they took Joe: Exactly! But there are things you think will
 longer coffee and lunch breaks than they cause you to lose money?
 should. Only 5% said they spent time texting Sam: Well, when we looked at the company’s
 friends and making plans for after work. strengths and weaknesses, we talked about
Prof. Gould: Good. And did you find out the the quality and happiness of my workers, the
 reasons why? costs of running the business and reaching
Alika: Yes. Approximately half said they didn’t new customers to help grow the business.
 work hard because they weren’t happy in Each of these areas could be a way to help
 their jobs. make money, or a way to lose money if you
 don’t have a good plan.
Prof. Gould: I see.
 Joe: Wow – that’s great! Those are
Alika: And about a third, 33.5%, thought they
 all important to think about. Is there
 didn’t earn a good enough salary. They said
 anything else?
 they didn’t have enough money for holidays
 or nice clothes. They had just enough money Sam: And what else was there? Oh, of
 to get by, so they didn’t work as hard as they course, customers!
 could. Some people, about 19%, said they had Joe: Well, that gives us plenty to talk about
 to work too many hours. today! So, let’s think about what you can


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 215
 do for your employees. You said that your colour. More colour could help the design
 workers were unhappy and not working hard pop out a bit more and prevent customers
 enough. Keeping your employees happy will from leaving the website before buying
 make them more likely to work hard for the anything.
 business. Try organizing some social events Sam: Uh-huh … That’s a good idea. I actually
 once a month during work hours. That could like blue, too. I think someone else told me
 be a good first step! Also, maybe you should about colours people prefer, but I forgot.
 paint the walls a brighter colour. The office Joe: Yes. It’s easy to forget to think about
 is really dark and people feel like they’re in a something as simple as colour. The web
 cave. Brighter colours can help make people designer you hire might have some good
 happier. And happier employees will also ideas about which colours to use. So, for our
 work harder. next meeting, you should create your website
 Sam: Oh, OK. Well, that’s good to know. design and bring a plan. You could think about
 Joe: You also have to cut costs. You spend far how it looks, as well as what it says. You don’t
 too much money on electricity every month. want it to look … well, you would want to be
 Turn off the lights and computers at the end sure it looks well organized and the best it can
 of the workday. You should also find some be. It should also be really easy to use. Next
 cheaper parts for your products, which are still time we’ll go over your design and see how to
 well made. It’s a tough job, but I can help you make it better. We will also think about hiring
 find them. a good web designer to make your website
 Sam: I see. That would be great! look great and be easy to use.
 Joe: If you spend less money, you can make Sam: OK, great! I’ll do that and bring it in
 a better profit. You have some excellent next week.
 adverts. But you mentioned that you are
 6.4
 having trouble reaching new customers and
 growing your number of customers is really Joe: Hi, Sam. Good to see you again.
 important for a successful business. So if I Sam: Hello, Joe.
 were you, I would try adding online sales to Joe: So, last time we met we talked about your
 get more customers. business goals. Was it useful?
 Sam: Yeah, I like that idea. I have a website Sam: Useful? … Yeah, it was. You really made
 already, but it looks pretty old and messy. me think! But now I have a lot of stress about
 Joe: But there are things we can work on. If losing money.
 you want to sell online, you should start by Joe: Oh, yes? What is making you stressed
 making sure that the website doesn’t look about that?
 messy. If you don’t have the skills to make it Sam: Well, I realized how many weaknesses a
 look neat, hire a professional web designer! business can have! One careless mistake and I
 You want a neat, clean website. It isn’t could lose a lot of money.
 something you want to be careless with. Joe: Exactly! But there are things you think will
 Sam: I see. Well, I would like to have a lot of cause you to lose money?
 black on the website. I think that colour is Sam: Well, when we looked at the company’s
 professional and serious-looking. strengths and weaknesses, we talked about
 Joe: I understand. But I think if you want to the quality and happiness of my workers, the
 make the website attractive, it needs more costs of running the business and reaching

216 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 new customers to help grow the business. Woman: Some people here didn’t have houses
 Each of these areas could be a way to help before, but now they do. Some people didn’t
 make money, or a way to lose money if you have animals for food, but now they do. Now
 don’t have a good plan. we can buy a lot of things. Some of us couldn’t
Joe: Wow – that’s great! Those are send our children to school, but now we can.
 all important to think about. Is there That’s the most important thing for me.
 anything else?
 7.1
 6.5 Student presenter: Hello, everyone. So
Joe: Exactly! But there are things you think will in this presentation I’d like to discuss the
 cause you to lose money? designers of some everyday objects: Arne
 Jacobsen, Sir James Dyson and Sir Jonathan
 6.6 Ive. These people designed simple things
a Was it useful? that have changed our lives and how we do
b Exactly! But there are things you think will everyday things. Today we are going to think
 cause you to lose money? about these inventors and designers, their
c Oh, yes? achievements and how their inventions and
d Well, when we look at the company’s designs have helped us.
 strengths and weaknesses … I would like to start with Arne Jacobsen, who
e What is making you stressed about that? was born in Denmark in 1902. When he was a
f Useful? … Yeah, it was. child, he loved to paint, but his father thought
 being an artist wasn’t a good career. So
UNIT 7 Jacobsen became a designer of many things,
 including buildings and furniture. For example,
 Trash artists
 here is a chair he designed in 1958. It’s called
Narrator: Kiwayu Island is located off
 the ‘Egg chair’. Have any of you seen this kind
 the coast of Kenya in the Indian Ocean.
 of chair before?
 There aren’t many tourists on these
 Razia: I have. Did they call it the egg chair
 beautiful beaches. The people who live here
 because of its shape? It’s an interesting design.
 seem very isolated from the rest of the world.
 But they are actually connected to the rest of Student presenter: Yes, you have a good
 the world in a surprising way. Plastic and other point. I think it was called that because of
 trash from around the Indian Ocean washes the egg-like shape. Nowadays, we still see
 up onto the beach daily. So every day the Jacobsen’s designs around us. When you
 women of Kiwayu go to the beach to pick up look at the chair design, can you guess what
 trash. Why? To earn a living. They collect flip- Jacobsen was like as a person?
 flops and bring them to their villages. There, Razia: His chair looks like a simple, neat design.
 artists and craftsmen turn the trash into So maybe he liked simple and neat things and
 colourful ornaments and souvenirs to sell. not complicated things.
 The people of Kiwayu make good money this Student presenter: Actually, that’s right. He
 way. They send most of their ornaments to did. For example, when he was growing up,
 Nairobi, the capital of Kenya. These are then he painted his room white because he didn’t
 exported to stores around the world or sold like all the flowers on the wallpaper he had.
 on the internet. And as an adult, he worked hard to make


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 217
 his designs perfect. In fact, he often kept his Student presenter: That’s right. This was a
 workers at work until late, trying to make piece of art that Dyson made in 2003, called
 things better. But even though he worked Wrong Garden. It tricks the eye. This shows
 hard, Jacobsen liked to joke and do funny Dyson’s love of good design as well as being
 things. For instance, as a child he liked to play an inventor. Dyson is still inventing new
 jokes on others and as an adult he once wore things. But he is also interested in supporting
 a melon for a hat when someone dared him education for students, and gives money to
 to. He also liked working on his own projects schools to help students study so they might
 in his free time and found painting to be become inventors, too. He has even donated
 relaxing. These days, Jacobsen is famous for money to the University of Cambridge to
 his modern, simple designs. His work showed support students and research there, with a
 that he thought about the purpose that his focus on technology.
 designs would serve for people. Now, I have one last picture to show you.
 Next, I’d like to talk about an inventor, James It’s a phone with a special design. It’s called
 Dyson. Can anyone think of something you the iPhone. I think a lot of us know about
 often use that might have his last name, this phone. It was designed by Sir Jonathan
 Dyson, on it? Ive for Apple. He is responsible for a lot of
 Razia: I know, a vacuum cleaner! Apple’s product designs, which are simple,
 Ebru: Or a hand dryer? clean and slim. Ive has won a lot of awards
 Student presenter: Both of those things for his Apple designs and you can see a lot of
 are correct. Dyson’s designs and inventions his work in museums, too. He is from London
 are made to solve problems. His ideas come and he was made a Knight Commander of
 because he sees things that could work the British Empire in 2012 for his design work.
 better, like the vacuum cleaner and hand He is known as being hard-working and
 dryer. But how did he start? Well, Dyson creative. I think that his designs will continue
 was born in England in 1947. His father died to influence the way we live and work for a
 when he was only nine. As a result, Dyson long time!
 ended up becoming someone who never 7.2
 gave up. He studied Art and Design before he
 studied Engineering. When he saw something Yasmin: Hello.
 that didn’t work well, he got frustrated and Luisa: Hi, Yasmin. It’s Luisa.
 worked to improve it. For example, his first Yasmin: Hi, Luisa! How are you?
 invention was a wheelbarrow with a ball for Luisa: OK, I guess. Actually, I’m not that great.
 a wheel. This made it easier to carry heavy Yasmin: Oh, no! What’s up? Is something
 things in the garden and over rough ground. wrong?
 It was an interesting new use for a ball. Also, Luisa: It’s the presentation for our course.
 even though he changed subjects, he was still You know, the one on remarkable people
 interested in art as well as designing. Take a who have done something really interesting
 look at this photo. What do you see? or unusual. I’m having trouble doing it. Have
 Ebru: It looks like a waterfall made from glass you finished it yet?
 and water, with the water running up instead Yasmin: Yes, almost. I just have to write a
 of falling down. That’s surprising. conclusion.


218 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
Luisa: Good for you. I bet it’s really good. people get jobs. That’s important because a
Yasmin: Thanks, Luisa. I’m pretty happy with lot of young people in her area don’t have
 it, but the introduction’s not great. It needs a enough work. So, she’s an entrepreneur, a
 little more work. How much have you done? company leader and a working mother.
Luisa: Well … I haven’t done all of it … Luisa: That’s amazing! Wow … I need to find
Yasmin: All? Or any of it? someone like that.
Luisa: I’m not very good at finding things to Yasmin: Why don’t you do something on
 present. I’m having trouble thinking of ideas. Yoshiro Nakamatsu? Do you know about
 Who did you do yours on? him?
Yasmin: I chose Sima Najjar. She’s a Luisa: Umm … I don’t know a lot about
 remarkable woman. Yoshiro … who … ?
Luisa: Who’s she? Why are you interested in Yasmin: Nakamatsu. Well, he was born in
 her? Japan. He is now over 90 years old and he is
Yasmin: Well, she’s from Jordan. She was still an inventor.
 working in fashion. She used to be the head Luisa: Umm … his life doesn’t sound that
 of a modelling company before and she extraordinary.
 worked with female Arab clothing designers. Yasmin: He has created more than 3,000
 So, she has had a lot of success. But she inventions, including a chair that is supposed
 is famous because she started a website to help you think better. Some of his
 with videos in Arabic showing people how inventions are a bit odd, like a pair of shoes
 to do things and, without even marketing made for jumping, and glasses in the shape
 the videos, they started getting one million of eyes so that other people can’t see them.
 views a month! He even made fake hair that can help keep
Luisa: How did she do that? you safe from others. I think Nakamatsu’s
Yasmin: Well, the videos are based on what situation is a little different from some
 people are searching for the most online. inventors, because not everyone agrees that
 They are often about fashion, food, health, he has that many real inventions, but he does
 parenting and art. Many of the people who have a lot. Also, he didn’t retire even after
 view her videos are Saudi Arabian women. he reached the age of 80. You might want to
 Another interesting thing is that she is a look up more information about him online.
 mother who is working full-time. Some Luisa: OK … I’ll check him out.
 of her videos help other mothers to have Yasmin: Do you know what the teacher
 better health after they have their babies. wants us to present?
Luisa: That’s great that she has become really Luisa: Well, I’m not sure I understand
 successful. Is there anything else about her everything …
 life or her company that’s amazing?
 7.3
Yasmin: When her company started, most of
 the videos were made by people in their 20s. 1 I’m pretty happy with it.
 Nowadays, she has three full-time workers 2 She’s a remarkable woman.
 making videos. She says that as her company 3 That’s amazing!
 gets bigger, she wants to start hiring others 4 I’ll check him out.
 to make videos, too. This will help more


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 219
 7.4 of what’s happening to Voyager, just like our
 children were.
 My presentation is about Thomas Edison. He
 Narrator: And what’s really amazing is
 was an American inventor and he was born
 that we’re still learning new things from
 in 1847. He is a remarkable person because
 Voyager. Almost 40 years later, Voyager still
 he invented a lot of the things we know and
 communicates with this dish over 11 billion
 use every day, such as the electric light bulb.
 miles away. Its message travels at the speed
 Well, he wasn’t the first to invent one, but he
 of light, but it still takes more than 17 hours
 was the first person to invent one that could
 to get here. This little green triangle shows
 last a long time. This was in 1879 while he was
 Voyager in deep space. It is a message from
 working in his research lab in Menlo Park, New
 the spacecraft. In 2012, Voyager 1 left our
 Jersey, in the US. It lasted 13.5 hours! Another
 solar system and became the first man-made
 important example of Edison’s amazing
 object ever to travel outside the empire of
 inventions is the motion picture camera.
 the sun.
 We all know this today as the video camera.
 Edison and his team invented it in 1891 and 8.1
 they showed short six-minute films. Equally
 1 When the sun is out, I make sure my son uses
 important was Edison’s work with Henry Ford,
 sunscreen so he doesn’t get sunburnt.
 who started the Ford Motor Company. Edison
 2 Have you read the information about the
 was worried about America’s dependence
 Red Planet?
 on foreign rubber for tyres. So while he was
 working at a lab in Florida in 1927, he found a 3 We are having a picnic, whether it is hot or
 new source of rubber in local plants … not. It has been good weather recently, so we
 are hoping it will be nice.
 UNIT 8 4 She ate her dinner before she went out at
 Empire of the sun eight o’clock.
 Narrator: Here in the Mojave Desert in 5 There are two doctors in the family, and their
 California, NASA, America’s space agency, daughter is also studying medicine.
 communicates with the spacecraft Voyager. 6 Our guest was in the house for an hour.
 Project scientist Dr Edward Stone became 8.2
 part of the Voyager team before it began
 its journey in 1977. Voyager’s goal was to fly 1 The weather is really nice today.
 by the planets Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and 2 I waited for an hour.
 Neptune and to send back information to 3 Are you going there later?
 the Earth. 4 I read the book yesterday.
 Dr. Edward Stone: None of us knew how long 5 We ate our dinner.
 the spacecraft could survive. When I started 6 I don’t mind.
 on the Voyager, my two daughters were young
 and by the and of course, by the time they
 8.3
 were in university, we were already, er, past Host: In this episode of Astronomy Today, we
 Saturn. We were on our way to Uranus, they are looking at space travel and the journeys
 got married. The Voyager just kept going. that people hope to make beyond the moon.
 We had grandchildren and Voyager just kept We’ll think about the planets people haven’t
 visited yet and whether we are likely to visit
 going and so now our grandchildren are aware
 some of them in the future. Let’s begin inside
220 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 our own solar system, which is made up of Lucy is about 4,000 kilometres across, less
 all the planets and the sun. Venus, Jupiter and than half as wide as Earth. Even though it is
 Neptune are probably the first names that come small, it weighs about as much as our sun.
 to mind when you think of the solar system. But If Lucy were mined, there would be more
 the planet scientists hope to visit next is Mars. diamonds found on it than all the diamonds
 Mars is known as the ‘Red Planet’ because of its on Earth through history. Even though it is
 colour. NASA, the US government organization
 a dead star, this dwarf star is hot. It has a
 that studies space, so far has only sent robot
 temperature of about 2,700 degrees Celsius.
 explorers to Mars. But they are working to send
 But scientists call Lucy a cold star, because it
 humans to Mars and want to reach Mars by the
 2030s. Even with the danger, many people want is only half as hot as our sun. And while the
 to travel to Mars. trip to explore Mars is planned for the 2030s,
 scientists have not found a way to travel
 8.4 outside our own solar system yet. Perhaps
Host: NASA wants to send humans to an one day.
 asteroid by 2025. An asteroid is like a very
 8.5
 large rock that goes around the sun like the
 planets do. First, NASA wants to send a robot Host: Hello, everyone. We’ll begin today’s
 on a journey to reach the asteroid and take a discussion with a look at how to pay for space
 large boulder from its surface. Once the robot exploration. We’ll also evaluate the benefits
 takes the large boulder from the asteroid, the of space exploration and whether the money
 robot will set the boulder on a path around we spend is worth it. We will first look at the
 the moon. After that, NASA wants to send options for paying for space exploration. I
 people to explore this asteroid piece in the have three experts with me today: Dorota
 2020s. They plan a journey to the boulder Loy, an engineer from the Space Development
 in a spacecraft named Orion. Orion won’t Project; Raj Padow, a researcher in economics;
 be able to land on the surface of Mars, but and Dr Jun Wu, who is a professor of
 it will travel to the asteroid boulder to get astrophysics. Let me ask Dr Wu to start us
 information. Orion will also help test new off by giving us a little information about
 spacecraft and give NASA information that it the impact of space exploration and the
 needs to safely send people to Mars. importance of spending money on it.
 Outside our solar system, there is a place even 8.6
 more surprising than Mars and many people
 Host: Let me ask Dr Wu to start us off by
 would go there if we had the spacecraft to
 giving us a little information about the impact
 send them. Its scientific name is BPM 37093,
 of space exploration and the importance of
 but it is usually called Lucy. It is actually a dead
 spending money on it.
 star or a white dwarf star. It is what is left over
 when a star uses up all its energy. It doesn’t Jun: Thanks for having me. Well, to answer
 burn anymore, but it shines with heat. But the your question, space exploration is important
 most surprising fact is that this dead star is a because we do research and get information
 huge diamond. Scientists have always known about many things. For example, as scientists
 about the diamond-like white dwarf stars, explore space, we learn about biology and
 which are made by heat. They are all outside about physics, as well as space. So for me, the
 our own solar system, like Lucy. most important thing is that governments
 give enough money for future exploration.

 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 221
 Dorota: You have a point that space public government money and I feel exactly
 exploration is used for a lot of scientific study. the same as Raj about private money. But
 But it is very expensive and there is less public we can do both of these things – public or
 money to pay for it nowadays. Is having the government money, helps us keep the people
 government pay really the only option for who know the most, like those at NASA,
 paying for space exploration? focused on the research and private money
 Jun: I hear what you’re saying, Dorota. It helps bring in other talent from companies
 isn’t cheap to run space programmes, but that would also like to explore space, such
 the money we spend is certainly worth it. as Virgin Galactic or SpaceX. Companies like
 Government and public money must be these have already spent a lot of money on
 included. So far, space exploration has shown this important type of travel …
 us many things about how space works, what Jun: Yeah, – important space travel that
 stars do, the effects on people who stay in governments should …
 space for a long time and so on. We must Dorota: Please allow me to finish. There are
 continue to do this work so that we can also other choices that neither of you have
 explore places in space farther away and … talked about yet. Space exploration benefits
 Raj: Can I just say something here? the world. What about money from private
 Host: Yes, Raj? individuals? There are wealthy people around
 Raj: I agree 100 percent with Dr Wu that we the world that might be interested in giving
 need space exploration. But even he says it is money for these projects. Also, with the
 very expensive. I know that we have to spend internet, people from around the world
 money to develop our space programmes could give money for these projects. Lots
 and we need more money than governments of people could make donations directly to
 have. So for me, an alternative would be to their favourite projects. I think in the future
 bring in thinkers from different industries we can get money for space exploration from
 to discuss different ways to pay. If we are more than one place. We should study these
 exploring space, we could have private different ways and use the best solution.
 companies pay for it. For me, this is the main Host: Dr Wu, Raj Padow, let’s get your
 reason we … thoughts on this. Do you agree with these
 Jun: But Raj, space exploration is so important. ideas for paying for space exploration?
 Governments must … Jun: Yes … Dorota could be right. Space
 Raj: Sorry, Dr Wu, can I finish my point? If so exploration needs money to come from many
 much money is spent on space exploration, places, as long as the government is still a part
 the most important thing should be of this important area of exploration.
 finding money from places other than the Raj: And I think she might be right, too. But
 government. It shouldn’t be just taxpayers as I said, only if there is money from private
 paying for it. Private companies make lots of companies, too.
 money from the discoveries made in space Host: OK, so you have some agreement here
 exploration, so they should pay for the costs. then. Let’s go back to the benefits of space
 Host: Dorota, you haven’t said much so far. exploration and think about that a little more.
 Any thoughts? So does anybody want to …
 Dorota: Well, I personally don’t see a
 problem. Dr Wu has a good point about

222 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
