 Part 2. You will hear a man called David talking on the radio about his work as a lifeboat volunteer. First, you have some time to look at questions 11 to 16.
 You will hear a man talking on the radio about his work as a lifeboat volunteer.
 Now listen carefully and answer questions 11 to 16.
 You will hear a man talking on the radio about his work as a lifeboat volunteer.
 You will hear a man talking on the radio about his work as a lifeboat volunteer.
 All the volunteers are contacted and rushed to the lifeboat station. Our targets to get there in five minutes. Then we try to get the boat off the dock and out to sea in another six to eight minutes. Our team's proud that we usually achieve that. The average time across the country is eight and a half minutes. I've recently qualified as what's called a helmsman, which means I have the ultimate responsibility for the lifeboat.
 I have to check that the equipment we use is in working order. The crew have special life jackets that can support up to four people in the water. And it's ultimately my decision whether it's safe to launch the boat. But it's very rare not to launch it, even in the worst weather. As well as going out on the lifeboat, my work involves other things too. A lot of people underestimate how quickly conditions can change at sea.
 We talk to youth groups and sailing clubs in the area about the sorts of problems that sailors and swimmers can have if the weather suddenly gets bad. We also have a lot of volunteers who organize activities to raise money for us. And we couldn't manage without them. Before you hear the rest of the talk, you have some time to look at questions 17 to 20.
 The training we get is a continuous process, focusing on technical
 competence and safe handling techniques. And it's given me the confidence to deal with extreme situations without panicking. I was glad I'd done a first aid course before I started, as that's a big help with the casualty care activities we do. We've done a lot on how to deal with ropes and tie knots. That's an essential skill. After a year, I did a one week residential course led by specialists.
 a wave tank where they could create extreme weather conditions so we could get experience of what to do if the boat turned over in a storm at night, for example. Since I started, I've had to deal with a range of emergency situations, but the work's hugely motivating. It's not just about saving lives. I've learned a lot about the technology involved. My background in IT's been useful here,
 expertise to help other volunteers. They're a great group. We're like a family, really, which helps when you're dragging yourself out of bed on a cold stormy night. But actually, it's the colder months that can be the most rewarding time. That's when the incidents tend to be more serious, and you realize that you can make a huge difference to the outcome. So, if any of you listeners are interested, why don't you give us a call?
 That is the end of part two. You now have 30 seconds to check your answers to part two.
