Unlock Listening, Speaking & Critical Thinking 1 © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2025 Photocopiable TESTS ANSWERS AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
TESTSANSWERS AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
UNIT 1 LISTENING TEST
PARTAKEYSKILL
1 1 sister 2 student 3 father 4 teacher 5 doctor
6 writer 7 brother
PARTBADDITIONALSKILLS
2 Italy S England B writer S student B Japan K
teacher K China K doctor S
3 1 T 2 T 3 F 4 F 5 T 6 F 7 T 8 F
UNIT 1 LANGUAGE TEST
PARTAKEYVOCABULARY
1 1 father 2 actor 3 chef 4 manager 5 engineer
6 businessperson 7 scientist 8 doctor
PARTBLANGUAGEDEVELOPMENT
2 1 My 2 He 3 your 4 We 5 Their
3 1 Is 2 is 3 aren’t / are not 4 are 5 ’m / am
UNIT 1 SPEAKING TEST
MODELLANGUAGE
Introducing your talk
I’m going to tell you about my mother / father / brother /
sister (other family member).
Giving personal details
This is (name).He’s/ She’s(age).
He’s/ She’sfrom (city / country).He / She lives in (place).
He / She is a (student or name of job).
He / She wants to be a(n) (name of job).
Using possessive adjectives
His / Her hometown is (city / country).
UNIT 1 AUDIO SCRIPT
Kenji: Hi, Sophia. Is that a photo of your family?
Sophia: Yes. Here, look.
Kenji: Are these your mother and father?
Sophia: Yes, my mother Hannah and my father Marco.
Kenji: Where are they from?
Sophia: Well, my father is from Italy, but my mother isn’t.
She’s from Australia.
Kenji: So all her family are Australian?
Sophia My mother’s mother isn’t. She’s from England, but
she lives in Melbourne.
Kenji: But is your father Italian?
Sophia: Yes, he is. My brother and I are, too. My father’s a
TV presenter in Rome and my mother’s a writer. She writes
children’s books.
Kenji: Is your brother a student at university?
Sophia: Yes, he’s a student, he wants to be a scientist and
work in America. What about your family, Kenji?
Kenji: Here’s a photo of my mother and father, my brother
and my two sisters.
Sophia: Where is your family from?
Kenji: We come from Tokyo in Japan, but my brother and I
don’t live there now. I’m a student here and my brother
works in England, in London.
Sophia: What does he do?
Kenji: He’s a teacher and my sister Yumiko is a manager in
a hotel in Tokyo. My other sister is 15 and still at school, but
she wants to be a chef.
Sophia: And you? What do you want to do?
Kenji: I want to be a businessperson. I want to work in China
or the UAE. And what do you want to do in the future?
Sophia: I don’t know. Not a businessperson though. Maybe
a doctor like my mother’s father.
UNIT 2 LISTENING TEST
PARTAKEYSKILL
1 1 autumn 2 hot, dry, sunny
3 cold, sunny, winter 4 rainy, cloudy
PARTBADDITIONALSKILLS
2 1 Speaker 4 2 Speaker 1 3 Speaker 3 4 Speaker 2
3 1 green 2 hot 3 blue 4 windy 5 snowy
6 temperature
4 1 snow 2 clouds 3 spring 4 sea
UNIT 2 LANGUAGE TEST
PARTAKEYVOCABULARY
1 1 sky 2 hot 3 spring 4 park 5 wind
6 an island 7 wet 8 desert
2 1 river 2 weather 3 mountain 4 forest
5 temperature 6 rain
PARTBLANGUAGEDEVELOPMENT
3 1 a 2 b 3 a 4 b 5 b
4 1 d 2 e 3 c 4 b 5 a
5 1 There’s a / There is a park in the town centre.
2 There are big mountains in Switzerland.
3 ✓
4 There’s a tree in my garden.
5 ✓
UNIT 2 SPEAKING TEST
MODELLANGUAGE
Introducing your talk
I’m going to talk about my favourite place to go on holiday:
(place). It’s in (country).
Talking about seasons
There’s a lot of rain in (spring / summer / autumn / winter)
in (place).
(Place) gets a lot of (snow / rain) in (spring / summer /
autumn / winter).
In the (rainy / dry) season, …
Describing weather
It’s (sunny / rainy / windy / cloudy / stormy / snowy).
There are (white / black) clouds in the sky.
The wind is strong there.
There’s snow in the mountains.
1.1Unlock Listening, Speaking & Critical Thinking 1 © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2025 p b TESTS ANSWERS AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
Describing colours
The trees are (green) in (spring / summer / autumn / winter)
and they change to (red / yellow / orange) in (spring /
summer / autumn / winter).
Talking about your favourite season
My favourite season is (spring / summer / autumn / winter)
because (there are beautiful flowers / it’s hot and dry / the
trees change colour / there’s a lot of snow).
UNIT 2 AUDIO SCRIPT
Speaker 1: In the winter, this country is very cold and there
is a lot of snow. There are high mountains and in winter they
are beautiful. The snow is white and the sky is blue because
it is very sunny. The forest is green all year.
Speaker 2: This is an island near the equator and the
climate is hot all year. There are two seasons, rainy and dry.
In the rainy season, it rains every day and there are a lot of
black clouds. In the dry season, the sky is blue and it’s very
sunny.
Speaker 3: My country has four seasons. My favourite is
spring because there are flowers everywhere and it’s very
green. In the summer, it is hot and dry. There are storms in
autumn and it’s rainy and windy, but the trees are beautiful.
The leaves are red, yellow and orange and the sky is blue.
Winter is cold and there is snow.
Speaker 4: This country is hot all year and it rains about
one week a year. It’s very dry and sunny. In the summer, the
temperature can reach 50 degrees centigrade. There is a big
desert with a lot of sand, but no trees. People live by the sea
and there are big parks in the towns.
UNIT 3 LISTENING TEST
PARTAKEYSKILL
1 1 b 2 c 3 a
PARTBADDITIONALSKILL
2 1 five 2 evening 3 two 4 every 5 six
6 mornings
3 1 teenagers 2 plays 3 computer 4 online
5 mornings
UNIT 3 LANGUAGE TEST
PARTAKEYVOCABULARY
1 1 study 2 homework 3 video games 4 exercises
5 gym 6 text 7 online 8 parents 9 go out
10 busy 11 café
PARTBLANGUAGEDEVELOPMENT
2 1 Does … work 2 doesn’t 3 live 4 don’t buy
5 gets up 6 doesn’t play 7 Do … like 8 don’t
3 1 They watch take the bus after school.
2 My mum takes makes my lunch every day.
3 Karim plays goes to the gym at weekends.
4 I make play football on Wednesdays.
5 Lily goes gets up at 7 am on weekdays.
6 I make have a History class on Tuesday and Friday.
UNIT 3 SPEAKING TEST
This test will work best with the students in pairs, but it is
also acceptable for them to work alone or for the teacher to
play the other role.
MODELLANGUAGE
Polite ways to ask questions in an interview
Excuse me. Can I ask you some questions?
Excuse me. Can I have a few minutes of your time? I’d like
to ask you some questions.
I’m …. What’s your name? Nice to meet you!
Polite ways to answer
Yes, sure. / Yes, no problem.
Yes. / Yes, I think so.
No. / No, not really.
Asking questions about lifestyle
Do you do homework in the evening / have breakfast every
morning / take the bus to school?
Do you text friends every day?
Do you watch films online / play video games / exercise?
Do you watch TV in the morning?
Do you like to watch football on TV?
UNIT 3 AUDIO SCRIPT
Keiko: My name’s Keiko and on today’s Our Life show I
want to find out about the lifestyle of teenagers. Excuse me,
can I ask you a few questions about your lifestyle?
Mehmet: Sure. No problem.
Keiko: Thank you. What’s your name?
Mehmet: Mehmet.
Keiko: Do you play video games, Mehmet?
Mehmet: Yes, I do. I play for one hour in the evening and
about five hours at weekends.
Keiko: And do you watch TV in the evening?
Mehmet: No. I don’t watch TV, but I watch films on my
computer.
Keiko: And when do you study?
Mehmet: I do my homework in the evening after school.
Keiko: And do you exercise?
Mehmet: Yes, I love football. I play for two hours on
Wednesday evenings.
Keiko: Well, thank you, Mehmet. Excuse me. Do you have
a minute?
Emily: No, Sorry, I’m busy.
Keiko: OK, thanks. Er, excuse me? Can I ask you a few
questions?
Isabella: Sure.
Keiko: Thank you. What’s your name?
Isabella: Isabella.
Keiko: I want to ask you some questions about your
lifestyle. Do you play video games?
Isabella: No, I don’t, but my brother does. He plays every
day. I go online and shop for music.
Keiko: And do you text your friends every day?
Isabella: Of course. I chat to them all the time!
Keiko: And, how many hours a night do you sleep?
Isabella: About six hours a night. My parents say it’s not
enough.
Keiko: Do you exercise?
Isabella: Yes, I go to the gym for one hour on Saturday
mornings and then I have coffee in the café.
Keiko: Well, thank you Isabella.
3.1
2.1Unlock Listening, Speaking & Critical Thinking 1 © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2025 Photocopiable TESTS ANSWERS AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
UNIT 4 LISTENING TEST
PARTAKEYSKILL
1 1 monument 2 park 3 café 4 opposite 5 next to
6 university
2 1 F 2 T 3 F 4 T 5 T
PARTBADDITIONALSKILL
3 1 b 2 b 3 a
UNIT 4 LANGUAGE TEST
PARTAKEYVOCABULARY
1 1 directions 2 map 3 department store 4 traffic
5 shopping centre 6 problem 7 toilets 8 cinema
2 1 traffic 2 popular 3 hospital 4 location
5 arrive
PARTBLANGUAGEDEVELOPMENT
3 1 b 2 d 3 e 4 f 5 a 6 c
4 1 b 2 b 3 a 4 a 5 b 6 a
5 1 Walk 2 Try 3 Turn 4 Don’t arrive
5 Don’t forget
UNIT 4 SPEAKING TEST
This test will work best with the students in pairs, but it is
also acceptable for them to work alone or for the teacher to
play the other role.
MODELLANGUAGE
Giving directions
It’sbetween the (bank) and the (department store).
It’sthere, on the left /right.
It’s(across from /next to) the (foodcourt).
It’s(behind /infront of) the (shopping centre).
Take Tower Street, and go over the bridge.
Go down Fort Street.
Thenturn (left /right).
The(supermarket) is on the (left / right) of / next to the bus
station.
UNIT 4 AUDIO SCRIPT
Matt: Welcome to Renton and I hope you enjoy your stay
here. I’m going to give you some directions so you can find
your way around while you are here. We’re outside the train
station now and in front of us is a historical monument. You
can enjoy the sun in our lovely park. It’s behind the small
shopping centre next to the café. There are lots of trees and
flowers and a very old fountain in the middle. There is a
food court in the shopping centre and you can buy your food
here. As you can see there is a department store opposite the
station.
Liz: Where’s the bank?
Matt: The bank is next to the library. Go down Wood
Street, past the museum, turn right and the bank is between
the library and the cinema.
Alice: Where’s the university?
Matt: That’s over the river. Walk down Ship Street, next to
the shopping centre. You can see the river at the end of the
street and a bridge to the right. Go over the bridge and the
university campus is in front of you. I have maps of the
town with me or you can download the app. Renton is a
beautiful town and it’s very safe, too. I hope you enjoy your
time here. Thank you.
MID-LEVEL LISTENING TEST
LISTENING1
1
family jobs
1 brother
2 sister
3 mother
4 father
5 doctor
6 chef
7 teacher
2 1 a 2 c 3 a
LISTENING2
3 1 A 2 B 3 B 4 A 5 B
4 1 is 2 near 3 dry 4 small 5 sunny 6 behind
MID-LEVEL LANGUAGE TEST
PARTAKEYVOCABULARY
1 1 sea 2 winter 3 shopping centre 4 busy 5 gym
6 exercise 7 teacher 8 sister 9 chef 10 parents
PARTBLANGUAGEDEVELOPMENT
2 1 My parents goes go to work at 7.30.
2 This is not he his book. It’s my book.
3 My friend is are Chinese.
4 Nina don’t doesn’t like football.
5 The cinema is in on the left, next to the supermarket.
6 Does he likes like video games?
7 There are is a department store near the train station.
8 Enter Turn right on York Street to get to the park.
9 Is Are there four seasons in Jordan?
10 Doesn’t Don’t arrive at the hotel after 11 pm.
3 1 b 2 a 3 a 4 b 5 a 6 b 7 b 8 a 9 b
10 a
MID-LEVEL SPEAKING TEST
MODELLANGUAGE
Introducing your talk
I’m going to talk about two photos of (place).
Here’s my first photo.
Here is another photo of (place).
Describing things in a photo
There’s a (river / bridge).
There are buildings.
There are a lot of shops.
There aren’t any parks.
Talking about locations
The (monument) is on (street).
It’s next to the park.
Talking about weather
In the summer, it is very hot.
It’s snowy in the winter.
MID-LEVEL AUDIO SCRIPT
Teacher: OK, today I want you to tell the class about your
family at home. Marius, do you have a brother or sister?
4.1Unlock Listening, Speaking & Critical Thinking 1 © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2025 p b TESTS ANSWERS AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
Marius: Yes, I have a brother. He’s 14 and he loves
football and basketball, and he goes to the gym on Saturday
mornings with our father. They both love to exercise, but I
don’t. I like to play computer games.
Teacher: Yes, we know you do. What about you, Clara?
Clara: I have a big sister and a little brother. My sister
Katia likes school. She does her homework after school and
then she reads books about science. She wants to study
Science at university. My brother is five years old and
watches TV every evening after school.
Teacher: Sofía, do you have a brother?
Sofía: No, I have one sister, Rosa. She’s 23 and lives in
Mexico with my grandparents. She’s at university in
Mexico City. Rosa wants to be a doctor and work in a
hospital. She goes online and chats to my mother every
evening, but she’s very busy so they don’t chat for a long
time.
Teacher: And Jason? What about your family?
Jason: My parents live in Beijing in China. My father is a
chef and he works in a restaurant in the city centre. My
mother is a school teacher. They are both very busy, but my
mother texts me every day.
Marius: Do you have any brothers or sisters, Jason?
Jason: No, I don’t.
Nour: I live in Cairo in Egypt. Cairo is a very busy city with
many people. The River Nile is in Cairo and there are many
bridges over the river, but a very famous bridge is the Qasr
El Nil Bridge. Cairo has many old buildings and also lots of
new buildings. There is a university near the river and many
shopping centres, hotels and beautiful parks. At weekends I
go with my family to a park next to a big hotel and relax all
afternoon. The weather in Cairo is very hot and dry in the
summer and there are sand storms that come from the desert.
In the winter it rains a little, but it is still hot.
Peter: My hometown is in Switzerland. It is small, beautiful
and very busy. In the winter we have a lot of snow and it is
very cold, but the sky is blue and it is sunny. The summer in
the mountains isn’t very hot and it rains, but the forests are
green. Lots of people come to my town and walk in the
mountains or ski in the snow. The town has two hotels, a lot
of restaurants and a train station. We also have a
supermarket and a park with an old monument in it. Next to
the park is a library and there is a little café behind it. I go
there every Saturday to have coffee.
UNIT 5 LISTENING TEST
PARTAKEYSKILLS
1 1 a 2 a 3 b
2 1 N 2 Y 3 Y 4 N
PARTBADDITIONALSKILL
3 1 next 2 work in a restaurant 3 fun 4 interesting
5 family 6 you
UNIT 5 LANGUAGE TEST
PARTAKEYVOCABULARY
1 1 kind 2 example 3 advice 4 boring 5 polite
6 strong 7 job 8 hard 9 fit
2 1 earn 2 help 3 work 4 teach
PARTBLANGUAGEDEVELOPMENT
3 1 has to 2 doesn’t have to 3 have to 4 don’t have to
5 has to 6 have to
4 1 shouldn’t 2 should 3 shouldn’t 4 should
5 should
5 1 Istanbul is more big bigger than Dubai.
2 A doctor works hard harder than a musician.
3 Football is easy easier than tennis.
4 My brother is good better at English than me.
5 Ricardo’s job is more interesting than Sophie’s.
UNIT 5 SPEAKING TEST
MODELLANGUAGE
Introducing your talk
I want to talk about (job) and (job).
Giving opinions and reasons
I think (job) will be a good (job) because …
To do (job) you have to be …
A (kind / fit / polite / young/ strong / friendly / helpful)
person does this kind of job.
A / An (job) has to / should …
I have many good qualities for this job. I am …
Also, I am good at …
You need to (be good with people / be good at Science /
work hard / speak … / know about …).
(Job) is (harder) than (job).
Concluding your talk
I think I will be better at (job) because …
UNIT 5 AUDIO SCRIPT
Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for coming. My name
is Karen Smith and I’m here from The Future Advice
Centre. Next year you finish school so it’s time to think
about what you want to do next. There are some important
things for you to think about and today we’re going to talk
about jobs and – for those of you who want to go to
university – choosing a subject to study.
The first thing you need to ask yourself is – do I want to
leave school next year, or do I want to go to university? You
don’t have to go to university. If you want to work in a
restaurant, I think it’s better to work and learn at the same
time. A chef can teach you how to cook and you get good
experience.
Another thing to remember is that the job doesn’t have to
pay very well. Choose a job you enjoy. Many creative
people like musicians don’t earn much, but they often have
fun.
Do you want a job where you help people, for example as a
doctor or nurse? They work long hours, but their jobs are
interesting. Whatever job you do you should have time to
relax and enjoy your life. It’s good to see friends and watch
TV.
You should talk to your parents, too. They can also give you
advice about jobs but remember it’s your life and your
future.
UNIT 6 LISTENING TEST
PARTAKEYSKILL
1 1 c 2 f 3 b 4 e 5 d 6 a
5.1Unlock Listening, Speaking & Critical Thinking 1 © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2025 Photocopiable TESTS ANSWERS AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
PARTBADDITIONALSKILLS
2 1 friends 2 disagree 3 likes 4 want
3 1 F 2 F 3 T 4 F 5 T
UNIT 6 LANGUAGE TEST
PARTAKEYVOCABULARY
1 1 ceilings 2 room 3 furniture 4 modern
5 noisy 6 near 7 expensive
2 1 e 2 f 3 a 4 b 5 c 6 d
PARTBLANGUAGEDEVELOPMENT
3 1 sofa 2 chair 3 table 4 bookcase 5 desk
6 armchair 7 lamp
4 1 b 2 a 3 b 4 a 5 b 6 a 7 a
UNIT 6 SPEAKING TEST
MODELLANGUAGE
Introducing your talk
There should be a new restaurant (in / near) …
It should be …
Giving opinions and reasons
(The building) should be … because …
It shouldn’t be … because …
… should be … because …
… should have … because …
Concluding your talk
In (summary / conclusion), the restaurant should …
It shouldn’t …
UNIT 6 AUDIO SCRIPT
6.1
Naveed: Lucas, I think we need to find a new place to live.
Lucas: Why? I like this apartment. I mean I know it’s a bit
noisy, but it’s near the town centre and all the shops. I want
to stay here and it’s near my parents.
Naveed: Yes, I know, but it’s expensive and small. We
should look for an apartment with more rooms. My brother
Ervin lives in an apartment not far from the office, and it’s
very quiet because it’s next to the park.
Lucas: I’m not so sure. I like our apartment because it’s
clean and comfortable.
Naveed: Well, there’s a nice apartment in his building and I
think we should go and see it tomorrow.
…
Naveed: Well, Lucas, what do you think? I think it’s great
because it’s bigger and quieter than our apartment. I love the
modern design of the building, especially the windows. You
can see the river and university. And it’s cheaper than the
apartment we live in now.
Lucas: True, but it’s cheaper because there isn’t enough
furniture. There’s only an uncomfortable sofa and a desk.
We’ll need to buy a table and chairs, an armchair and a lamp
or two.
Naveed: In that case, Lucas, we should go to the furniture
shop behind the bus station because they sell lots of cheap
things there.
Lucas: OK, I want to get a desk for my room, oh, and a
wooden bookcase for all my books.
UNIT 7 LISTENING TEST
PARTAKEYSKILL
1 1 15 2 200 3 62 4 3 5 7 6 1,800
PARTBADDITIONALSKILLS
2 3, 5, 4, 2, 1, 6
3 1 b 2 a 3 a 4 b 5 b
UNIT 7 LANGUAGE TEST
PARTAKEYVOCABULARY
1 1 cultures 2 dishes 3 fast food 4 fresh
5 international 6 enjoy 7 meal 8 meat
2 1 d 2 c 3 f 4 a 5 h 6 b 7 g 8 e
PARTBLANGUAGEDEVELOPMENT
3 1 didn’t learn 2 lived 3 didn’t watch 4 cooked
4 1 Did you eat my sandwich? Yes, I did.
2 Did your mother cook lunch yesterday? Yes, she did.
3 Did they visit the museum last week? No, they didn’t.
5 1 came 2 made 3 had 4 bought 5 did 6 was
7 went
UNIT 7 SPEAKING TEST
MODELLANGUAGE
lntroducing your report
I’m going to tell you about changes in my eating habits now
compared to (the past / five years ago).
Giving details
Five years ago, I went to (fast food / traditional /
international) restaurants … % of the time.
Now, I go to (fast food / traditional / international)
restaurants … % of the time.
Five years ago, I ate (alone / with my family / with my
friends) … % of the time.
Now, I eat (alone / with my family / with my friends)
… % of the time.
Five years ago, I ate (fish / meat / plants) … % of the time.
Now, I eat (fish / meat / plants) … % of the time.
Giving reasons
The reason is … / This is because …
UNIT 7 AUDIO SCRIPT
Teacher: So last week we had an international food festival
with food from fifteen different countries. Did you all enjoy
it?
Antonio: Yes, it was great. I read that two hundred people
came to the college to try our food. I ate home-cooked
Japanese food for the first time. It’s very different to
Mexican food. In Mexico we eat a lot of tacos and rice. My
mum cooks healthy meals, but I often eat burgers because
it’s quicker.
Rosa: It’s the same in Italy, at home we eat pasta with meat
and vegetables, but when I go out, I eat pizza with chips.
Did you know that people bought sixty-two pizzas at the
festival? It was the most popular dish.
Teacher: Wow, that’s a lot of pizzas! What dish did you
bring to the festival, Da-hyun?
6.1
7.1Unlock Listening, Speaking & Critical Thinking 1 © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2025 p b TESTS ANSWERS AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
Da-hyun: My favourite – noodles with fish and vegetables.
It’s very popular in Korea. I ate tacos and rice at the festival.
The price was good, it only cost three dollars.
Teacher: I didn’t have a taco, but I had meat and salad. It
was seven dollars, so more expensive than your taco, but it
was delicious and better than the sandwich I usually have
from the campus café.
Antonio: The food at college isn’t very nice, only the chips
are OK.
Teacher: True, maybe we should have more food festivals,
so we can eat better food. The college made nearly two
thousand dollars, one thousand eight hundred to be exact, so
they definitely think it was a good idea.
UNIT 8 LISTENING TEST
PART A KEYSKILLS
1 1 drive your car 2 make journeys faster
3 do something you shouldn’t do
4 by public transport 5 more 6 outside
2 1 F 2 T 3 F 4 F
PART B ADDITIONAL SKILLS
3 1 a 2 a 3 b 4 b
UNIT 8 LANGUAGE TEST
PART A KEYVOCABULARY
1 1 pavement 2 share 3 journey 4 Petrol 5 taxi
6 idea 7 passengers
2 1 c 2 a 3 e 4 b 5 g 6 f 7 d
PARTBLANGUAGEDEVELOPMENT
3 1 drive 2 ride 3 take 4 go
4 1 went 2 sat 3 ran 4 took 5 drove
5 1 so 2 because 3 because 4 so 5 because
UNIT 8 SPEAKING TEST
MODELLANGUAGE
Describing the topic
My talk today is about … in …
Describing the problem
This is the problem.
There is / are / was / were …
Describing the solution
One solution is …
We should … so / because …
Describing results
That way, … The result is …
… will … because / so …
UNIT 8 AUDIO SCRIPT
David: I want to drive into London next week – my brother
lives there, but I read that I have to pay a congestion charge.
What’s that?
Amy: That’s the money you have to pay to drive into the
centre of the city. Why don’t you take the metro or a bus
into the centre? There’s a lot of traffic in London and there
are bus lanes everywhere.
David: Are they the parts of the road only for buses?
Amy: Yes and no. They help the buses move around the city
faster, but taxis and motorbikes can also go in them.
However, you can’t drive a car in them during the day. The
passengers think bus lanes are a good idea because their
journeys are much quicker, but don’t drive in a bus lane or
you’ll get a fine.
David: What’s a fine?
Amy: It’s money you pay when you do something you
shouldn’t do. It’s about £160, but you only pay £80 if you
pay within two weeks.
David: Oh, no. I don’t think I want to drive into London.
Amy: Most people travel by public transport.
David: Is it expensive?
Amy: The metro fares are cheap. The fare means the price
of the ticket.
David: So how much is it?
Amy: When are you going?
David: Tuesday morning.
Amy: Don’t go at peak time. That’s the time when a lot of
people travel.
David: Well, I have to leave at 8:30.
Amy: Where does your brother live?
David: He lives in central London.
Amy: That’s zone 1. So you certainly don’t want to drive
into the centre. Park your car in the suburbs and then take
the metro.
David: The suburbs? What are they?
Amy: Oh, the suburbs are areas outside the city or town
centre. That’s where most people live. Drive your car to a
metro station, park and take the metro. It’s much easier!
David: OK, I’ll do that.
END-OF-LEVEL LISTENING TEST
LISTENING1
1 1 18 2 two 3 500 4 30 5 six
2 1 interesting 2 better 3 dangerous
4 home-cooked 5 San Francisco
LISTENING2
3 1 b 2 a 3 a 4 b
4 1 b 2 d 3 a 4 c 5 e
END-OF-LEVELLANGUAGE TEST
PART A KEYVOCABULARY
1 1 weather 2 furniture 3 ticket 4 plants
5 sleep 6 advice 7 mountain 8 engineer
9 playground 10 fit
PARTBLANGUAGEDEVELOPMENT
2 1 The traffic was bad because so I was late for school.
2 There are is a lot of rain in spring in Portugal.
3 My parents think I should to go to university.
4 Maths is easy easier than History.
5 Go turn along West Street. The park is in front of
you.
6 Saeed sit sat in the park yesterday.
7 The sofa is next next to the armchair.
8 Is Does your teacher speak Japanese?
9 Did you ran run here today?
10 I have to do my homework now.
3 1 ride 2 desk 3 in front of 4 salad 5 snow
5 watch
8.1Unlock Listening, Speaking & Critical Thinking 1 © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2025 Photocopiable TESTS ANSWERS AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
END-OF-LEVELSPEAKINGTEST
MODELLANGUAGE
Introducing your presentation
I’m going to talk about my plans for a food festival
in school.
First, I will …
Then, I …
Outline your plans with reasons
Talking about food
I think people should (cook / make) their favourite food and
drink because …
Students can bring food from (different / their own)
countries because …
Talking about location
(The park) near our school is …
People can come to (school / the park) on foot / by train / by
bus.
Giving reasons
(In the classroom) is better because …
Our families can come because …
Concluding
I believe that …
The best thing to do is …
END-OF-LEVELAUDIO SCRIPT
Alicia: Where did you go on your holiday?
Fabio: I took a bus across America from New York to San
Francisco. It took 18 days and it was so interesting.
Alicia: Wasn’t it boring on the bus?
Fabio: No. We didn’t stay on the bus all the time. We went
to two national parks, Yosemite and the Grand Canyon. I
think Yosemite was better than the Grand Canyon because
there were fewer people. There were over 500 when I was at
the Grand Canyon. There’s a bridge made of glass and you
can stand on it and look down at the river. I know it’s not
dangerous, but I felt uncomfortable standing on it and didn’t
really like it.
Alicia: Was it hot?
Fabio: Yes, but it rained, too. I didn’t like that. But
Yosemite Park was amazing. There were lots of trees so it
was very green and not too hot. I loved it there.
Alicia: Where did you go next?
Fabio: To San Francisco. You should go there – it has lots
of unusual shops and fantastic food. One pizza restaurant
made 30 different kinds of pizza and they weren’t like the
fast food pizzas we get here. More like the ones my
grandmother cooked at home.
Alicia: Did you stay in a hotel?
Fabio: Yes, in San Francisco we did. It was cheap and
small – there were only six rooms and the other people
staying there were nice. The city is amazing! I think you
should visit, too. You’d love it!
Fahd: Hi Haru. I hear you have a new job.
Haru: Yes, I’m going to work as a ranger.
Fahd: What’s that?
Haru: It’s a person who helps care for nature.
Fahd: So you help animals?
Haru: Not really, although I have to make sure the places
they live in are safe. It’s my dream job and that’s why I went
to university. There is one problem though.
Fahd: What’s that?
Haru: Well it’s in the countryside so I have to leave my
hometown. I’m not sure I want to do that.
Fahd: Where is the job?
Haru: In Terwick. It’s more than 100 kilometres away, so I
have to move and live on my own.
Fahd: Do you have to find somewhere to live?
Haru: No, one of the good things about this job is that it has
a cabin.
Fahd: What’s that? Is it like a stone house?
Haru: No, it’s a small wooden house that I can live in while
I work for the company. When I leave, I have to find another
place to live.
Fahd: Is the money good?
Haru: It’s OK, but not great. I will earn enough to buy all
my food, but I don’t think I can afford to go out very much,
or come home often. I think I’ll be very busy, so I won’t
have much free time.
Fahd: Do you think you’ll be lonely? You won’t have any
friends there.
Haru: I know, but I enjoy being alone, too.
Fahd: Well, we can all come and visit you in the holidays.
Haru: That would be great!