 Part 4 You will hear part of a food science lecture on fashions in food. First, you have some time to look at questions 31 to 40.
 You will hear part of a food science lecture on fashions in food.
 Now listen carefully and answer questions 31 to 40.
 Interest in food fashions has risen rapidly since the birth of the smartphone when people first began taking photos of their food and instantly sharing them with their friends. The food industry in the UK in particular is obsessed with finding and exploiting the next big food trend. Marketeers aim to create a huge demand
 for a food item which was previously unknown or not needed. One of the most effective ways of promoting a new food product is by using social media influencers as brand ambassadors.
 For a food item to become really popular, it has to be readily available.
 on social media and are particularly interested in what well-known chefs are putting on their menus.
 they paid for a group of journalists to travel out to South Africa to meet avocado farmers. Articles written following this visit helped to educate the British public about the avocado, which at this time was certainly not the daily staple it has since become.
 Avocados became hugely fashionable and within a few years UK avocado sales had grown from £13 million annually to around £150 million, making it one of the most successful fresh produce campaigns in UK history.
 Oat milk is a recent example of a new product which became fashionable very quickly. Now there are many brands available but one company which had early success was the Swedish brand Oatly. They attracted a lot of attention with a media campaign which used provocation as a way of getting their message across effectively.
 In the USA, the brand decided against a big retail launch in favour of getting the product into coffee chains which removed the need for a big advertising budget. This proved far more effective than offering samples in supermarkets.
 Oat milk had an advantage over other alternative milk products such as almond milk. Many consumers prefer it because it has less of an impact on the environment. It requires significantly less water to produce than other alternative milk products and it also has a relatively low carbon footprint.
 Oat milk is a highly available seasonal fish delicacy otherwise known as Arctic Cod is now found on the menus of Michelin starred restaurants throughout Europe. The demand for spray has been used by a food marketing agency to build the reputation of Norway's fisheries in general. Marketing surveys have shown that a significant number of shoppers now associate Norway with excellent seafood.
 Food trends can be considered a good thing in some ways as they can benefit farmers and food producers enormously. The public can also be encouraged to buy things which are more sustainably produced. But ethical concerns have been raised about the effects a surge in demand can cause.
 While the popularity of quinoa has benefited farmers financially, there have been other negative consequences. As demand grew, farmers began working the land all year round in order to produce more quinoa.
 That is the end of part four. You now have one minute to check your answers to part four.
 you
 That is the end of the listening test. In the IELTS test you would now have 10 minutes to transfer your answers to the
 listening answer sheet.
