VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 UNIT 1 from? How do they get to your supermarket? And what
 is the true environmental cost of your usual shopping
 NBA making a play for China list? Our reporter Darren Hayes has gone to a Freshmart
 Commentator: They’re on a charm offensive in China. in central London to investigate this issue and to see
 These US basketball stars are opening NBA-sponsored just what countries customers are putting in their
 facilities in the southern city of Shenzhen. It’s one way baskets.
 for the American league to promote itself as it tries to Reporter: Hello, I’m here at the Freshmart in central
 tap into the vast potential financial rewards on offer. London. There are a lot of healthy consumers here,
 American interviewee: China is a huge market for the and David Green is one of them. David, can we take a
 NBA, and I think it is very important to bring games look in your basket? What are you buying today?
 here because when we bring games here it gives David: Mostly fruit and vegetables. I’ve got a bunch of
 people a chance to experience the NBA sort of … up grapes, some bananas, some kiwis, a small packet of
 close and personal, as we say. blueberries, tomatoes and a lettuce. I’m making a fruit
 Commentator: The Chinese market is worth nearly salad for lunch as I’m trying to eat healthily.
 $150,000,000 in merchandising and broadcast deals, 5% Reporter: I notice on the label that the bananas are
 of the NBA’s income. Two pre-season matches between from Colombia.
 the Charlotte Hornets and the LA Clippers here and in David: Yeah … so?
 Shanghai have caused a ripple amongst fans. Reporter: Do you mind if I check the grapes? Hmmm …
 Fan 1: I’ve never seen a match live in person. So when they’re from South Africa. The kiwi comes from … New
 I heard they’d be coming to China, I came here Zealand and the blueberries are from Argentina. David,
 because you don’t often get a chance like this. did you realize that all of this fruit is imported from
 Commentator: Many eyes are on Jeremy Lin, the first overseas?
 Chinese American to play in the sport’s top league and David: Well, I guess as it’s winter we can’t grow these
 a superstar in China and beyond. The Hornets edge fruits in our country. They have to be imported. If
 this game but in the end, it appears to be as much they weren’t, then how would we get fresh fruit in
 about building commercial links as preparing for the winter?
 new season. Reporter: Good point. The global food industry – and
 Basketball player 1: An honour to play in the first game the speed of shipping fresh foods by aeroplane –
 er … ever in Shenzhen er … we’ve had an incredible few allows people all over the world to eat a huge variety
 days here. of fresh fruit and vegetables all year round.
 Basketball player 2: We had a terrific time here in David: It’s just more convenient, isn’t it? Most of the
 Shenzhen, it was er … just a fabulous city. fruit and vegetables I like, like peppers, oranges, and
 Basketball player 1: It’s a great city, and erm … the bananas, grow in hotter climates. A lot of the fruit and
 passion of, er … Chinese NBA fans is very, very evident. veg that grow here in the UK is so boring.
 Commentator: Basketball’s popularity in China seems Reporter: It is possible to grow fruit and vegetables
 to be going from strength to strength, and if the fans from hot countries here, but they have to grow in
 have their way, the next step could be a regular season greenhouses, which increases production costs. If you
 NBA game in Asia, rather than just a friendly. look at these tomatoes, which were grown on a local
 farm, they’re almost twice the cost of the tomatoes you
 1.1 have here from Morocco, over 3,500 kilometres away.
 Host: Today on The world close up – The David: I’d never pay that for a few tomatoes! Local
 48,000-kilometre fruit salad. With globalization, the food can be so expensive. It’s not worth it.
 world has become a smaller place. On last week’s Reporter: I know, but cheap food comes at a price. Let’s
 programme, we talked about how people around the look at the figures. The bananas from Colombia must
 world are watching foreign TV programmes, wearing have travelled more than 8,500 kilometres to reach
 clothes from other countries and working at companies Freshmart, the grapes from South Africa must have
 with several international offices. On this week’s come more than 9,600 kilometres, and the Argentinian
 programme, let’s look at how globalization allows us to blueberries nearly 11,100 kilometres. The kiwi from New
 taste food from different cultures around the world, Zealand? That must have flown about 18,800 kilometres.
 without leaving the country. We don’t just mean So, that’s about … 48,000 kilometres of air travel in one
 speciality products, like Turkish sweets and Japanese bowl! That’s an incredibly long food supply chain. It’s also
 desserts. Think about the regular food products a huge carbon footprint, which means a huge amount of
 customers are buying every day. Where do they come pollution was produced to get this food to the shelves.

200 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 When food travels, a lot of carbon dioxide pollution is the state should help our own farmers rather than
 produced, and most people now believe that carbon foreign growers. Finally, we should not fall into the trap
 dioxide in the air is causing climate change – causing the of not growing enough food. What would happen if it
 Earth to get generally warmer. didn’t rain and we were left with a food shortage?
David: I’ve never really thought about it that much.
 What about this lettuce? It’s local. 1.5
Reporter: Even something that looks like it’s local can For my presentation today, I’d like to talk about
 have a big impact on the environment. It’s far cheaper globalization and the film industry.
 for supermarkets to have several large factories than a What is the first place that comes to mind when you
 lot of small ones all over the country, so food grown think of films?
 around the country is transported to large factories to
 When people think about films, they most often think
 be packaged and sold. This lettuce may be local, but
 about Hollywood in the United States. Hollywood is in
 the farm it came from could have transported it across
 Los Angeles in California. Hollywood was originally an
 the country and then put it into this plastic packaging.
 agricultural town founded in the 1850s. It was not until
 It’s sometimes then transported back to the place it
 the early 1900s that filmmakers moved to Hollywood.
 was grown in the first place.
 Since then, Hollywood has become more and more
David: So, before arriving at Freshmart, this local lettuce famous for its big-budget films.
 might have travelled …
 However, film production is not just an American
Reporter: … maybe up to 500 kilometres? You can business, as production companies making films for
 only really be sure how far something has travelled if their domestic markets exist all over the world. For
 you purchase it directly from a farm or if you grow it example, one of the more famous film industries is
 yourself. Bollywood in India. There are other ‘Ollywoods’ that
David: Wow. I can’t believe it. Maybe I should pay the make films for their countries, such as Nollywood in
 extra money for local food … Nigeria, Zollywood in Zimbabwe and Ghollywood in
Reporter: Thanks for your time, David. Ghana. Pakistan has two: Lollywood is based in Lahore
 A 48,000-kilometre fruit salad that comes from and Kariwood is based in Karachi.
 four different countries isn’t very expensive for the But even Hollywood itself has become more
 consumer. But the big question is, what’s the true multinational. More than 50% of American films had
 environmental cost of such a well-travelled salad? parts that were filmed overseas. More than 25% were
 That’s all for today. Thanks for listening to The world completely filmed outside of the United States, making
 close up. the film industry more and more global.
 Next time you watch a film with New York City as
 1.2 the location, you may not be seeing New York at all.
1 … cheap food comes at a price. Many films that are set in New York are actually not
2 A 48,000-kilometre fruit salad … filmed in New York; instead, they are often filmed in
3 … what’s the true environmental cost of such a well- Toronto, Canada. The number is so high that Canada is
 travelled salad? sometimes called ‘Hollywood North’. The film industry
 added nearly two million dollars to that country’s
 1.3 economy between April 2014 and March 2015. So, why
 are so many American films made in Canada? I can
1 These agricultural products are already going abroad. give one simple reason: money. Film directors get a
2 We grow many kinds of tea on this plantation. big discount on labour. It is cheaper to pay for labour
3 The police regularly find illegal imports. costs in Canadian dollars than it is to pay for them in
4 The company produced more crops overseas last year. the United States. Canada also gives the United States
5 The bananas are timed so that they ripen together. tax credits, making it a great deal for both countries.
 Look at these statistics. Producers still have to pay for
6 Flying the crops causes air pollution.
 labour costs, which in the past was as much as 35% of
7 The products pass through customs easily.
 the budget. But nowadays producers can get a 16% tax
8 I want to know why these routes cost more. credit, which makes the costs much lower than in the
 United States. British Columbia offers an extra 18% if
 1.4 producers choose their province for filming. And there’s
 There hasn’t been much support from the government more! Companies can get a 15-to-20% tax break if they
 over the issue of imported agricultural crops. There create their digital effects in Canada. In order to get this
 are three issues with this. Firstly, nearly a sixth of all tax credit, one of the two highest-paid actors in the
 imported fruit cannot grow in our climate. Secondly, film must be Canadian. Because of this, profits increase
 for both countries!


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 201
 Are you familiar with the Hollywood film Titanic? For
 that film, a large production set was actually built in
 UNIT 2
 Mexico! Since films made in Mexico are considered Langton School science programme
 exports, they are free from some taxes, making Mexico Narrator: In the southeast corner of England, near
 an appealing location for film-makers. And of course, it the famous city of Canterbury, is the Simon Langton
 brings jobs and money to Mexico. Consequently, it is a School. It is certainly no ordinary school. The research
 win-win for both sides! conducted by science students at the school ranks
 Another popular area for filming is the Middle East: for up there with work done by scientists at NASA and at
 example, Hollywood has made films in the United Arab CERN, the international atomic physics research facility
 Emirates and Jordan. The reason for the popularity of in Switzerland.
 these countries is similar: tax incentives. In addition For more than ten years now, the school has ignored
 to great locations with sun, deserts, water and cities, the official government science curriculum and
 the United Arab Emirates offers a 30% rebate on engaged students in real research projects that have
 production costs, and even helps Hollywood organize drawn the attention of the scientific world. Fifty
 permits, visas, customs clearance and script approval. percent of the school’s students go on to STEM
 Jordan helps producers avoid taxes, such as the VAT or subjects—that’s Science, Technology, Engineering and
 ‘Value Added Tax’ that is added to goods and services Maths—at university. Probably their most well-known
 that are bought. Therefore, more and more films are effort is a physics and astronomy project. Following
 being filmed there. a visit to CERN in 2007, Langton students designed a
 In conclusion, the Hollywood film industry has device that could detect radiation in space. One of
 become more and more globalized. Not only does it the students describes the project.
 bring its films to viewers around the world, it is also Tom Stephenson: Our data is very relevant to NASA
 bringing jobs and money into countries outside the because cosmic rays’ effects on electronics and
 United States. technology can cause corruption of data and things
 in satellites, but also there’s aspects to do with
 1.6 astronaut safety.
 I’d like to talk about where your money goes when Narrator: Dr Becky Parker, Head of Physics at Langton,
 you buy a cup of coffee. There has been a lot of thinks that the study of space can inspire young
 discussion in the media recently about fair prices for students and get them excited about a wide range of
 the people in countries that grow crops like coffee. scientific research. She told us that the students are
 Many people believe that it’s not right that a cup of doing fundamental research while they’re at school.
 coffee can cost £3 or more, of which the farmers only Instead of students just learning to pass the exam,
 get a few pennies. However, others have pointed out she believes that they should be contributing to
 that the coffee beans are only one part of the cost science, doing science and living science. This is a new
 of supplying a cup of coffee. They say that the other approach to science education. And Langton science
 ingredients, such as milk and sugar, are also a big part students are not just studying physics. They are also
 of the cost of a cup of coffee. However, I would like doing ground-breaking research in the health sciences,
 to show that in a typical coffee shop the ingredients with one project looking at the structure of a protein
 are only a small part of the overall cost. Let’s look that plays a role in the degenerative nerve disease, MS.
 at some data. If you consider the information in They may be the only school with a licence to modify
 this chart … the human genome, the complete set of human DNA.
 The students are aware of how unusual this
 1.7 experience is.
 Christopher Cundy: You look at new drugs and they’re
 This pie chart shows where your money goes when
 always manufactured by pharmaceutical companies
 you buy a cup of coffee. Firstly, as you can see, the
 and you look at new products and they’re always done
 largest part of the cost is administration, at 26%. That’s
 by big corporations, but this is just, you know,
 more than a quarter of the cost per cup. Secondly is
 a school.
 labour, which you’ll notice accounts for 20% of the
 Narrator: Tom Ziessen of the Wellcome Trust, which
 cost. Next, tax, profit and rent each make up about
 helps fund some of these projects, describes the
 14% of the cost, or a total of 42% of the price of your
 Langton science curriculum in this way.
 cup of coffee. Finally, I’d like to draw your attention
 to the three parts that are related to the product you Tom Ziessen: I think that Langton is inspiring for what
 take away – milk at 6%, the cup, sugar and lid at 4%, they’re doing. It’s absolutely phenomenal. I mean, they’re
 and the coffee itself at 2%. Together, they make up doing not just real experiments, but they’re doing real
 12% of the price you pay. experiments into things that nobody knows the answer
 to and that’s sort of … fairly unheard of in schools. I’ve
 never heard of another school doing something like that.

202 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 2.1 Laura: Yes, that’s a good idea. I think I could do that.
 I’d like to know more about what engineers actually
Laura: Hello, I’m Laura. Are you my adviser? do, and I’d rather talk to someone than just read the
Adviser: Yes, Laura. Welcome to the careers office. information on websites. Thanks.
 Good to see you. Adviser: In that case, have you considered talking to
Laura: Hello. some engineers about their work?
Adviser: Now, I saw from your file that you’re looking Laura: I don’t know any engineers.
 for advice on what to do after you graduate. You’re Adviser: Well, there are several engineering firms that
 considering going to college, aren’t you? will be attending the careers fair next week. You
Laura: Yes, that’s right. But I’m not really sure which should definitely attend that. Also, I know that some
 course to apply for. Engineering graduates will be attending the careers fair
Adviser: Well, what are you considering? as well. I’m sure we could arrange for you to talk with
Laura: I like Maths and Physics, and I’m doing well in them. You could ask them what their jobs are like.
 those classes. Laura: That would be great. I really want to know
Adviser: Looking at your file, I couldn’t agree more! You how hands-on Engineering work is. I wouldn’t mind
 should make use of your Maths and Physics abilities. the academic side of Engineering, the Maths and the
 Any ideas about an area of study? Physics, but I think I’d really enjoy the actual work of
Laura: Well, I’m considering studying Engineering. Engineering – you know, designing and making things.
Adviser: Ah, Engineering. That’s a big field. Well, Computer Engineering could be really interesting.
 Engineering jobs are definitely popular. The world will Adviser: You might want to try contacting a Computer
 always need engineers! What kind of Engineering are Engineering firm here in the city, then. In fact, I could
 you interested in? Electrical? Civil? Computer? help you with that. We could probably arrange a visit
Laura: I’m not sure. I’ve always been interested in the for you.
 way things work, like cars and other machines. I’d like Laura: That would be fantastic. Thank you.
 to study something technical, that’s for sure. You
 know, I’m actually really interested in space flight. I’d 2.2
 love to build rockets and spacecraft! See script on page 42.
Adviser: Maybe you should consider Mechanical
 Engineering, then. That would be a start anyway. That’s 2.3
 a good, basic Engineering degree – it covers the basic
 1 You’re considering going to college, aren’t you?
 subjects. Mechanical engineers often go on to become
 specialists in lots of different areas – Aerospace 2 I like Biology, so I really want to be a doctor.
 Engineering is just one of them. It would definitely be 3 You should consider the subjects you like and the
 a way to use your Maths and Physics skills. You’d also subjects you do well in when choosing a degree
 acquire some really useful new skills and an in-depth course.
 understanding of the field. 4 I’m considering studying Art History.
Laura: Okay, but I’m not sure if that would be for me. 5 I’ve always been interested in the way things work.
 An Engineering degree would be very academic. I 6 I think I could do that.
 wonder if I should try something more vocational. 7 I wouldn’t mind the academic side of Biology …
 I actually like manual work better. I’d rather make 8 … but I might enjoy the practical side of Linguistics.
 something than write about it! Is it possible to
 do both? Maybe I could do an internship at an 2.4
 Engineering firm. Then maybe I could study later, after
 I see how the internship goes. Medical student: Hey, Adam. Come in. Sit down. Want
Adviser: Of course, you should consider an internship, something to drink?
 but it would be helpful to think about Engineering Adam: No, thanks, I’m OK.
 courses too. Have you done much research on Medical student: Have you thought about the medical
 different courses that are available? courses I suggested?
Laura: Not yet. Adam: A little. I’ve done a little research, but I’m having
Adviser: I suggest that you try to find out more about a hard time deciding what I want to do.
 Engineering courses. I could give you the names of Medical student: That’s understandable. There’s a
 some universities and colleges that teach Engineering. lot to think about. Is studying medicine the most
 You could visit them and discuss their courses in important consideration for you?
 detail. Adam: Yes and no. The most important thing is
 probably that I do a medical course of some kind, but
 not necessarily one that involves a lot of study.

 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 203
 Medical student: OK. Adam: It’s a diploma course. So, it would take a lot less
 Adam: I definitely want a secure job after I finish my time, and I’d be able to start work quickly. It would be
 course; that is important to me. And I really want to great to actually work after so much study. I’ve been
 help people. studying my whole life. I’m ready to do something,
 Medical student: What about location? Do you care have some adventures, so I’m not too sure about
 about where you study? nursing.
 Adam: Not really. That’s probably the least important Medical student: Yes, I can see that. Continuing with
 factor. more studying like me isn’t for everyone. It may not be
 Medical student: OK, good. Well, I think we’re getting the ideal course for you.
 somewhere. You’re getting really good marks; maybe Adam: EMTs need in-depth understanding of how to
 you should consider studying to become a doctor. deal with emergencies, and they need the ability to
 Adam: I’m not sure about that. make quick decisions.
 Medical student: Really? Why not? Medical student: I think you’d be good at it.
 Adam: Well, I guess another one of my criteria is that Adam: And if I wanted to continue my training, after
 the job is very practical. working as a basic EMT, I could study to become an
 EMT specialist. That’s another diploma course.
 Medical student: Sorry, but I have to disagree. I think
 being a doctor is a very practical job! Medical student: But wouldn’t you rather study to be
 a nurse? I imagine the pay would be better.
 Adam: Yes, but if I choose that option, I’ll be studying
 for so many years and I’d rather not! Adam: You’re probably right, but it’s not for me. I
 definitely won’t be studying Nursing.
 Medical student: Maybe you should consider
 becoming an A & E nurse, working in the Accident and Medical student: Why don’t you get some more
 Emergency department. information about EMT courses, then, and find out
 which colleges offer that diploma.
 Adam: I’ve looked into that. It’s a degree course.
 Adam: That’s a great idea. I am going to make a list of
 Medical student: You don’t sound too keen. If
 colleges this weekend.
 you’re not too interested in that, what else are
 you considering? Medical student: I guess you’ve made a decision, then.
 You’re not going to follow in my footsteps and this
 Adam: It depends. I’m not sure what I can apply to
 time next year you’ll probably be working as an EMT –
 study. There are a few programmes where you can
 that’s pretty exciting!
 study to become an emergency medical technician –
 an EMT. They’re the people who work on ambulances, Adam: I think that’s really what I want to do.
 assessing patients’ conditions, performing emergency
 procedures, like applying manual pressure on 2.5
 someone’s wounds after an accident. It also requires A: I think the most important factor is probably
 some technical knowledge of ambulance equipment. financial need.
 It’s professional and practical. B: I’m not sure about that. What if we say that financial
 Medical student: That’s a tough job. Exciting, but need is number two?
 tough, and very physical. C: So, what’s number one?
 Adam: Yes, but it seems like a great way to really help B: I feel it’s important to really focus on the applicants’
 people when they need it. potential contribution to society.
 Medical student: So, what’s the difference between C: I think that’s right. Why don’t we rank the proposed
 the two courses? courses of study according to their contribution
 Adam: The EMT course is very practical. When you work to society?
 in an ambulance, you need a lot of practical skills to help A: OK, I can see your point, but why don’t we just say
 people. You have to be very independent and confident that the interview is number one and financial need is
 to make decisions on your own, and of course there’s number two?
 the driver training, too! C/D OK.
 Medical student: OK, I see your point. B: Wait a minute. I don’t agree with that at all. Academic
 Adam: The A & E nursing course is also practical, but it ability is much more important. What if we say that
 includes more theoretical work. Especially when you academic score is the most important factor?
 study the core subjects – learning about the human A: I think the rest of us are in agreement about the most
 body and about medicine, and so on. It would involve a important factors.
 lot more complex study. You have to work closely with
 D: Well, I think the least important thing is the student’s
 hospital staff. It’s a degree course.
 written application.
 Medical student: And the EMT course?


204 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
C: Sorry, I don’t think I agree. They need to be able to Dr Kanov Kahol: Most innovations are made for the
 write well. top one percent of the world, right? And then they
B: Wait! Have you considered looking at the applicants’ somehow trickle down to the bottom billion, and I
 family situation? was very interested in reversing that pyramid. I said,
 why don’t we actually start making innovations for
 2.6 the bottom billion? Because they will have to work in
 conditions and environments that are not necessarily
1 A: Students need to be good at both writing and very friendly, but once you get it to work there, it can
 speaking. always go ahead and work for across the world.
 B: I see. That’s understandable. Commentator: India spends less than 1.5% of its GDP
2 A: Hotel workers are important, but doctors save lives. on public health, one of the lowest in the world. Every
 B: OK, I see your point. year millions of Indians are pushed into poverty due to
3 A: The Chinese language is becoming more important medical cost. In an overburdened and creaking health
 all the time. system, new technologies may just be the cure.
 B: You might be right about that.
4 A: Why don’t we say doctors have the most 3.1
 important job? Teacher: Throughout history, there have been many
 B: OK, I think we can all agree with that. pandemics around the world: measles, malaria, cholera,
5 A: Do we all agree that financial need is the most the flu. So how does a common disease turn from an
 important factor? outbreak into a pandemic? Any ideas?
 B: Yes. We’ve made a decision. Student 1: People’s general health and how close they
6 A: Can we agree that academic score is the most live to each other can be major factors in the spread
 important factor? of disease, can’t they?
 B: I think we’ve come to an agreement. Student 2: Yes, so governments need to make sure
 people are in good health and have good living
UNIT 3 conditions to stop diseases from spreading.
 Teacher: Well, that’s a good idea, but there’s a limit
 New ‘health tablet’ gives instant test results to what governments can do, especially in times of
Commentator: A government-run clinic unlike any economic difficulty.
 other. Set up in a slum on the outskirts of the national Student 2: And governments don’t always have the
 capital, it uses technology to bring quality change to power to say exactly how everyone should live.
 the poorest. A hand-held device called a Swasthya, or
 Teacher: So what factors do you think would make a
 Health Tablet, is making all the difference. It provides
 country at a high risk for a pandemic?
 instant results of 33 diagnostic tests including pre-natal
 Student 3: Well, countries with large populations are
 screening, diabetes, malaria, hepatitis, typhoid and
 probably at risk, especially where large numbers of
 even HIV. 54-year-old Kussum has a blood sugar test.
 people live close together.
 With results instantly displayed, the doctor prescribes
 her medicines. What could have taken her a few trips Student 1: And countries which a lot of international
 and a couple of days, she walks out within minutes. travellers pass through, like the UK and other countries
 The device also stores medical records in the cloud for in dark and medium blue on the map.
 future reference. Three hundred patients are attended Teacher: That’s right. The countries most at risk of a
 to every day. They are mainly the underprivileged, who pandemic these days are wealthier countries like the
 otherwise would struggle to get basic medical care. UK, South Korea, the Netherlands and Germany. What
Patient 1: It used to take us up to three days to get tests do those countries have in common?
 and results after a number of trips to hospitals and Student 2: They’re not all large countries, but they do
 clinics. Here it’s all immediately done whilst seeing the all have large cities with big populations.
 doctor. We’re very happy and satisfied with the clinic. Student 1: And they’re all places where a lot of
Commentator: The government plans to open 1,000 international travellers might go. They have a lot of
 such community clinics, using the same technology. busy airports and potentially thousands of people
 This 400-pound device is the brainchild of Dr Kanov coming in every day, from all over the world.
 Kahol. A professor at the Arizona State University, he Teacher: Correct. If you look at those countries in
 quit and returned to India to create affordable health light blue, they’re at a medium or low risk for a
 technologies. With a small team, he is now working pandemic because they have less dense populations,
 on improving and creating other devices that can less international travel, fewer borders, etc. OK,
 potentially revolutionize medical care for the masses. so imagine you’re an adviser to your government.
 You want to protect your country from a pandemic.
 What should you do?
 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 205
 Student 1: You should give everyone a vaccine. suggestions for decreasing the risk of pandemics,
 Teacher: A vaccine. OK, good idea. Can anyone explain then? Perhaps not as large scale as closing down
 what that is? country borders?
 Student 2: It’s a kind of medicine, isn’t it? Student 1: Well, people who have the flu should stay at
 Teacher: Yes, sort of. Most medicines are given to home from school or from work, shouldn’t they?
 patients after they develop an illness, to help them
 recover, but a vaccine is different. A vaccine provides 3.2
 disease prevention. If people have the flu vaccine, 1 So this is a very serious disease, isn’t it?
 they often don’t become infected. So if we wanted 2 So this is a very serious disease, isn’t it?
 to avoid pandemics, then governments would need
 3 It’s a kind of medicine, isn’t it?
 to implement vaccination programmes for common
 diseases, wouldn’t they? 4 Governments would need to implement
 vaccination programmes for common
 Student 3: The government should force everyone to
 diseases, wouldn’t they?
 have vaccines. They should give a vaccine to people
 as soon as an outbreak occurs, because prevention 5 The government can’t force people to have
 is generally much easier than treatment. When a vaccine, can it?
 governments focus on the prevention of disease, 6 People don’t want to contract a disease, do
 pandemics become very rare. they?
 Student 2: I’m not sure I agree. The trouble is, 7 During a pandemic, we should stop all
 organisms that cause disease, like bacteria or viruses, flights from countries that are affected,
 change every year. So a vaccine that worked really well shouldn’t we?
 last year may not be effective this year. 8 People who have the flu should stay at home from
 Student 1: There’s another thing to consider too; a lot school or from work, shouldn’t they?
 of people don’t want to have a vaccine that might not
 work. The government can’t force people to have a 3.3
 vaccine, can it? 1 A lot of people don’t want to have a vaccine that
 Teacher: Well, I don’t think any governments do, but might not work. The government can’t force people to
 in the event of a pandemic, they definitely encourage have a vaccine, can it?
 people to have it, and a lot of people do. People don’t 2 During a pandemic, we should stop all flights from
 want to contract a disease, do they? So, other than countries that are affected, shouldn’t we?
 vaccination, what other ways are there of stopping the 3 People travel all the time for business. It would have a
 spread of disease? terrible effect on the economy, wouldn’t it?
 Student 1: International travel is a big risk to a disease
 spreading quickly. We shouldn’t allow people with 3.4
 diseases into the country.
 Host: Flu season is here, but experts and the public
 Student 3: I’m not sure I agree. The trouble is most
 are divided on the subject of vaccination. Those in
 people spread diseases before they even know they
 favour of the flu vaccine say that it may help you
 have them.
 avoid getting ill and may also help stop the spread of
 Student 2: And there’s another problem. How could
 the disease. They point out that this may save lives.
 people prove whether or not they have diseases? It
 Those experts against the flu vaccine argue that there
 would be impossible to set up a system for checking it.
 is no proof that it works. Some go so far as to say that
 Student 1: During a pandemic, we should stop all flights it may be unsafe because it is produced very quickly,
 from countries that are affected, shouldn’t we? If we though there is no evidence to support this claim.
 don’t let people into the country, then the disease
 The fact is that there is no research or clinical
 won’t get here.
 evidence to show that either side is correct. As the
 Student 2: But there’s another side to that argument. debate continues, statistics show that only about 30%
 People travel all the time for business. It would have a of us choose to have the flu vaccine each year.
 terrible effect on the economy, wouldn’t it?
 Student 3: But also, in most countries, people who 3.5
 live near a border travel back and forth across it,
 sometimes every day. If countries stopped people Host: Since the news that this year’s flu vaccine is ready,
 from travelling, a lot of people could lose their jobs. It the government has advised that the old, the young
 could also separate families. and people with medical problems be vaccinated.
 However, not everyone thinks vaccination is a good
 Teacher: Well, those are some really interesting views
 idea. According to NHS England, less than 50% of
 from all of you. Can anyone think of some simpler
 those eligible to have the flu vaccine – most people

206 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 except for the very young and very old – got the flu that it works, that it stops infection? Does it really
 vaccine as a precaution last year. That means over provide prevention of the disease?
 50% did not get vaccinated. Of that 50%, some are For most medicines, the government makes sure that
 actively against the flu vaccine. proper tests are carried out, but this isn’t the case
 In today’s debate, we’ll begin with flu expert Dr Sandra with the flu vaccine. There isn’t one single scientific
 Smith, who is in favour of flu vaccination. After that, study that proves that this year’s flu vaccine works.
 we’ll hear from alternative medicine practitioner Mark The packaging on this flu vaccine clearly states that
 Li, who is against flu vaccination. ‘No controlled trials have been performed that
 Dr Smith will now begin. Dr Smith? demonstrate that this vaccine causes a reduction in
Dr Smith: Thank you. Well, influenza, or the flu, is a influenza’. It’s here in black and white.
 respiratory disease that can make you feel extremely If it says on the package that there’s no proof that
 ill. Most people who get the flu recover after several it’s an effective prevention, why are we using it?
 days. While they may feel terrible, there are usually Yes, vaccination can be good, but flu vaccination is
 no long-lasting problems. However, the flu can cause just a big experiment, and it may actually be doing
 severe illness or worse for a small percentage of the more harm than good. If it were proven, then I would
 people who get it. It may not sound like a lot, but consider it.
 actually this is hundreds of thousands of people Host: Thank you, Mr Li. Dr Smith, do you have anything
 around the world each year. It can be especially to add?
 serious for the very old and the very young. Obviously, Dr Smith: Thank you. You make some interesting
 we want to do everything in our power to stop the points, Mr Li. It’s true that when the flu emerges every
 infection from spreading. This brings us to vaccination. year, it’s a bit different than the year before. When
 When people get vaccinated, less flu can spread making a vaccine, researchers have to try to figure out
 through the population. how the flu is going to change and adjust it to the
 Vaccines have saved millions of lives. They’re a new virus. If we waited until the new virus emerges, it
 proven method of disease prevention. Scientists would be too late.
 have been developing flu vaccines from the 1930s up So while Mr Li is right – we don’t do clinical trials of
 to today, so we have a lot of experience with them. the flu vaccine in the way that we do trials for other
 Researchers make new flu vaccines every year, based medicines – that doesn’t mean we aren’t scientific in
 on the previous year’s flu virus. The World Health our methods. I’d definitely like to challenge the idea
 Organization recommends that children between that there’s no scientific basis for our work. I disagree
 the ages of six months and five years, people over with Mr Li on that point. Let me tell you more about
 65, pregnant women and anyone who already has a my work in that area.
 serious illness should have the flu vaccine. They also We can prove in the laboratory that vaccines can
 recommend vaccinations for healthcare workers. reduce the risk of getting a disease, generally. What
 To finish up, let me say this: I’m a flu specialist. we don’t know is exactly how this year’s flu virus will
 I research the virus and work closely with flu patients change, but we can use our experience to make a
 all the time, so I’m constantly around the virus. I’ve had prediction. As for the question of the vaccine being
 the vaccine. All of my colleagues have had the vaccine. dangerous: it doesn’t contain a live virus, so you
 None of us have caught the flu. If we hadn’t had definitely can’t get the flu from the vaccine. If people
 the vaccine, we could have caught the flu each year. are vaccinated and then happen to become ill, that
 There’s no guarantee that vaccination will prevent you doesn’t logically mean the vaccine caused the illness.
 from getting the flu, but it won’t hurt you, and there’s They were most likely in contact with the virus before
 a chance it could save your life. How would you feel if they were vaccinated.
 someone in your family did not have the vaccine and Mark Li: Well, I’m sure Dr Smith is a very good doctor,
 then became really ill? but I think the flu vaccine package I mentioned earlier
Host: We’ll now have the statement against vaccination is clear. It’s obvious that the vaccine hasn’t been
 from Mark Li. properly tested.
Mark Li: Thank you, and thank you, Dr Smith. Let The other big concern, of course, is safety. A lot of
 me start by saying that I’m not against all vaccines. us believe that the vaccine actually causes people
 Dr Smith is absolutely right that many vaccines work to become ill rather than making them well – so
 very well and that millions of lives have been saved by she and I disagree on that point. I’m talking about
 vaccination. There’s plenty of good scientific data that side effects. Some people have become really ill
 proves that. If scientists hadn’t developed the polio after being vaccinated. This can be anything from
 vaccine, the world would be very different today. But headaches to stomach problems. Do you really want
 let me ask you this: has the flu vaccine been properly to use a medicine that might make you ill? Supposing
 tested? Have there been proper clinical trials to prove you gave your children the vaccine and it made them


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 207
 worse rather than better? Some people also believe and a huge area of forest. It also caused severe floods
 that the vaccine may give you the flu, rather than when rivers were blocked with volcanic ash.
 stopping you from catching it. I’ve had patients who However, humans are also responsible for a lot of
 were healthy, then had the flu vaccine and became ill. habitat destruction. There were originally more than
 Medicines shouldn’t make us ill. That’s why I’m against 16 million square kilometres of rainforest worldwide.
 the flu vaccine, and that’s why I don’t think anyone at Only nine million remain today, and deforestation is
 all should have it. occurring at a rate of approximately 160,000 square
 Host: Thank you both. metres per year. In Europe, only about 15% of land
 hasn’t been modified by humans.
 UNIT 4 In some places, habitats haven’t been destroyed,
 but they have been broken into parts, for example,
 Cloning endangered species separated by roads. This is called fragmentation. If
 Reporter: They are called bantengs, and although one animals are used to moving around throughout the
 of the week-old calves just died, the fact that they year and a road is built through the middle of their
 were born at all could put scientists one step closer habitat, fragmentation can cause serious problems.
 to saving some endangered species. The animals were Humans haven’t only affected the land and its animals;
 cloned from the frozen skin cells of a banteng which they have also affected the sea. Pollution from coastal
 died 23 years ago. cities has damaged the ocean environment and
 Man: I’m rather still astounded by the fact that you can destroyed the habitat of fish and other sea life.
 take the nucleus of a cell and produce a living animal. Habitat destruction hasn’t been bad news for all
 Reporter: It’s called nuclear cell transfer, injecting the animals. In fact, some species have adapted extremely
 banteng’s genetic material into the egg of a living well to living closely with people and benefit from
 cow. It’s been done before with an endangered animal living near them.
 called a gaur. It died in just two days. The banteng was In Africa and Asia, monkeys live in cities alongside
 euthanized after developing complications from the people and exploit the human environment by
 cloning. While the news of the birth is astonishing, it stealing food or eating things that humans have
 also worries some conservationists. thrown away. In Singapore, the 1,500 wild monkeys
 Conservationist: If you don’t deal with protecting that live in and around the city have become a tourist
 habitat and dealing with all the root causes of attraction.
 endangerment, it doesn’t matter how many animals In Australia, Europe, Japan and North America, foxes
 you are able to produce in the lab and try to sort of live in urban areas, even big cities such as London.
 fling back into the wild, they’re going to face the same They have different diets, depending on their
 fate as their wild counterparts. environment; they survive in the city by eating a wide
 Reporter: The scientists at Advanced Cell Technology variety of things, from rubbish out of bins to insects
 in Massachusetts, where both the banteng and gaur and wild birds. Not everyone welcomes the foxes;
 were cloned, agree to some extent. they sometimes enter people’s homes to steal food
 Scientist: However, it doesn’t make much sense to and they occasionally bite people. Likewise, police in
 preserve the habitat if you don’t have any animals to India recently spotted several young leopards in the
 preserve. streets of Mumbai. The leopards had moved into the
 Reporter: If you’re wondering, ‘Can this technology city from the nearby forests. One expert said that the
 be used to clone extinct animals like the mammoth?’, surprising thing was that leopards had been in the city
 hold on. Since cloning needs preserved animal tissue, for a long time, but people rarely saw them. Leopards
 bringing back the dinosaurs remains the stuff of are very secretive, and they prefer not to be seen.
 science fiction, for now. One other animal that is as at home in the city as
 in the countryside is the raccoon. In fact, raccoons
 4.1 are so at home in the city that the number of city
 raccoons has increased. Raccoons have different diets
 Planet Earth is dynamic and always changing. Just 10,000
 depending on their environment. Common foods
 years ago, about half of the planet was covered in ice.
 include fruit, plants, nuts and rodents. Much like the
 Today this is around 10%, as the Earth has been foxes of London, raccoons living in the city are known
 warming since that time. Part of this environmental to eat rubbish out of bins, steal food from people’s
 change is due to natural, rather than human, causes. homes and occasionally bite people.
 Sometimes, natural forces can destroy the We tend to think of human activity as always having a
 environment. In 1991, a volcano in the Philippines negative impact on the environment. However, some
 erupted and killed many people and animals. It people feel that we can have a positive impact, too.
 destroyed around 800 square kilometres of farmland


208 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
Conservation means trying to save habitats. Ecotourism threats to this environment. Finally, we’ll talk about
is an approach to travel and holidays where people what is being done to save the world’s deserts.
visit natural areas such as rainforests, except rather than Let’s begin by looking at some background information
destroy the environment, they help preserve it. Visitors from the United Nations Environment Programme.
to the La Selva Amazon Eco Lodge in Ecuador watch The United Nations reports in Global Deserts Outlook
and learn about local wildlife, visit tribes who live in the that the Earth’s deserts cover about 33.7 million
forest, and stay in an environmentally friendly hotel. square kilometres, or about 25% of the Earth’s surface.
Their presence doesn’t damage the local environment, Deserts are home to 500 million people, or about 8%
and most guests leave the hotel as conservationists. of the world’s population but, as I’ll explain, people
When they experience the beauty of nature firsthand, all over the world rely on things that come from
they feel strongly that they want to protect and this environment.
preserve it. Humans have learned to exploit the resources of
Not everyone feels that ecotourism is actually helping the desert for survival and profit by adapting their
the environment. Tourists who travel long distances behaviour, culture and technology to its harsh
by aeroplane create pollution, as do resorts, which use environment. To give you an example, tribes such as
local resources such as fresh water and produce waste the Topnaar in southwest Africa are known for their
that creates pollution in the local environment. ability to survive in deserts due to their use of local
 plants and animals for food, medicine and clothing.
 4.2 They have an understanding of the natural world.
See script on page 88. The Bedouins, who live from North Africa to the
 Syrian deserts, are skilled at using animals to provide
 4.3 transport, food and clothing and also at growing basic
 foods around desert rivers. The Topnaar and the
See script on page 88. Bedouins are just two examples of people who live
 in and rely on the desert environment for the things
 4.4 they need. However, city dwellers benefit from the
Before she wrote her influential book Silent Spring in desert, too.
1962, Rachel Carson had spent years working for the Certain minerals are commonly found in deserts,
US government at environmental agencies like the which provide a large portion of the world’s diamonds,
US Bureau of Fisheries and the US Fish and Wildlife together with copper, gold and other metals. They are
Service. During her time there, she did her own a major source of oil and natural gas, too. These desert
personal research and writing. By 1955, Carson had products are used by industries and people all over the
already published several books on environmental world every day. So what I’m saying is that even though
research when she began to do research full-time. most people may not live in a desert, we are affected
One subject that she was particularly interested in was by changes to this desert environment.
the effects of pesticides on the environment and on Agricultural products are also grown in deserts and
human health. During World War II, the government exported around the world. Because the climate
used the pesticide DDT to protect people against is warm and land tends to be inexpensive, desert
diseases caused by pests. After the war, farmers countries are able to grow and sell food all year. A
sprayed large amounts of DDT into the air to protect good example of this is Egyptian cotton, famous all
their crops. Carson had heard that the chemical was over the world. New methods of irrigation are being
making people ill with cancer and was causing animals developed so that desert agricultural systems can use
to die, so she decided to do scientific research on water more efficiently. So we can see that deserts
the subject and publish it as a book, to warn people are important, not only for the people who live in
about the risks. After Carson had released Silent them, but for everyone who uses products that come
Spring, the pesticide industry attacked her for her from a desert environment. That’s all I have to say on
research. However, the US government responded by that point.
banning the use of DDT in the United States. Soon her Moving on now to the typical desert environment.
book was translated into several languages and was In summer, the ground surface temperature in most
published around the world. deserts reaches 80 degrees Celsius, and there is very
 little rain. Despite these harsh conditions, a wide
 4.5 variety of plants and animals live in and are supported
 by this environment. For example, there are reportedly
The topic of my talk is the decline and destruction of
 over 2,200 different plant species in the desert regions
the world’s deserts. First, I’m going to talk about the
 of Saudi Arabia, based on research from King Saud
desert environment and wildlife. Then we’ll look at the
 University.


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 209
 Small plants are especially important in a desert We can also make better use of two resources freely
 environment because they hold the soil in place, available in the desert: the wind and the sun. These
 which allows larger plants to grow. Acacia trees can can be used to provide clean energy on a fairly small
 grow well in extremely hot, dry conditions, but the scale within existing desert cities. According to a blog
 seeds need stable soil to begin growing. Smaller plants, called A Smarter Planet, scientists in Saudi Arabia are
 therefore, help the larger ones and in this way, all already using solar energy to produce fresh water in
 desert plants help hold the dry soil in place, which the desert for agricultural use.
 helps to reduce dust storms. To summarize, deserts are not only important to the
 Deserts are also an important animal habitat. One of people who live in them, but to plants, animals and
 the best known desert animals in the Arabian Peninsula people everywhere, from the Bedouin tribes to city
 is the Arabian oryx, which weighs about 70 kilograms dwellers. Human activity is causing the destruction of
 and is about one metre tall. It rests during the heat desert habitats, but there are ways in which we can
 of the day and searches for food and water when help to stop this.
 temperatures are cooler. Experts say that the oryx can
 sense rain and move towards it. UNIT 5
 These examples show that the desert is an ecosystem
 that supports a variety of important plant and animal The skyscraper
 life. The problem is that human activity is affecting New York City may have made them famous, but
 modern deserts all over the world. According to the skyscrapers were born in Chicago, Illinois. A terrible fire
 United Nations, traditional ways of life are changing as in 1871 made it possible for architects to experiment
 human activities such as cattle ranching, farming and with new building techniques that would allow them
 large-scale tourism grow. The process of bringing water to make buildings taller than ever before. These stately
 into the desert to grow plants is making the soil too brown-stone buildings are some of the world’s first
 salty. The construction of dams for power generation skyscrapers.
 and water supply and an increase in mining have also Louis Sullivan, known as the father of the skyscraper,
 begun to have a greater impact on the desert. Owing lived and worked in Chicago. This is his Auditorium
 to the destruction of desert plants, dust storms are Building on Michigan Avenue, completed in 1889.
 more likely and desert animals, therefore, have less Sullivan believed that the new social and economic
 food to eat. Data from the United Nations shows that strength of the United States required a new
 every year nearly 2% of healthy desert disappears. architecture. And his idea that tall buildings represent
 Today, more than 50% of the world’s desert habitats power is still popular 125 years later.
 are untouched wilderness, but by 2050, it may be as Sullivan described the skyscraper as the perfect
 low as 31%. symbol of the proud spirit of the American man.
 If we lose the world’s deserts, we lose everything I But it was really the symbol of the proud American
 spoke about in the first part of my talk. The Topnaar businessman. By 1920, there were over 300,000
 and Bedouin way of life will certainly disappear, but corporations in the United States, serving 100 million
 what does this mean for the rest of the world? Well, consumers in an enormous single market – it was
 everyone on Earth will experience an increase of dust the biggest, most powerful economy the world had
 and dirt in the air as desert plants die. If desert soil ever seen.
 becomes too salty to grow plants, we’ll also lose a Above all, skyscrapers represented American corporate
 valuable source of food, and I’m talking about foods success. They changed the appearance of American
 that we all eat. If we allow deserts to be destroyed, life cities. The skylines of New York and Chicago looked
 all over the Earth will change. To put it another way, like bar charts or graphs, with the tallest buildings
 we will all be affected. Now, the big question is, what representing the richest, most powerful companies.
 is being done about the destruction of deserts? And the same is still true in cities around the world
 The United Nations Environment Programme offers today – from Dubai to Shanghai, from Seoul to
 two main solutions. First, we can begin to manage Kuala Lumpur.
 desert resources carefully, instead of abusing them.
 This means using the desert for things we need, as well 5.1
 as not damaging it further. It might mean not allowing
 Alan: Khalid, we need to talk about that warehouse the
 activities such as raising cattle in certain areas. It would
 company plans to obtain in Westside.
 mean carefully controlling the way we use water.
 Secondly, we can apply technological solutions. The Khalid: OK. I’ve just seen the pictures; I think there’s a
 UN gives the example of using the latest computer lot of potential there.
 technology to help forecast how climate change will Alan: Really? I’m afraid we might be biting off more
 affect deserts, and using that information to prepare than we can chew.
 for these changes. Khalid: Do you think so? Why?

210 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
Alan: First, the problem is the Westside area itself. Thirty whole new building. It would also create more floor
 years ago, it was a thriving industrial neighbourhood space that could be used for retail space. We’d
 with a lot of businesses. Now, it’s a half-empty waste have enough room for at least two or three more
 ground. It’s ugly. There are lots of abandoned buildings, shops there.
 and the area isn’t really used for anything. No one wants Alan: I hadn’t thought of doing it that way.
 to go there. Second, the warehouse we’re looking at Khalid: Another option to consider would be putting
 is in a terrible condition. It was abandoned about 20 shops on the ground floor and flats or offices above. If
 years ago. It’s beginning to sink into the ground, and it’s we added a floor or two to the top of the building, we
 falling apart – we would need to do some serious work could definitely use glass and steel for that.
 to bring the building back to good condition. Acquiring Alan: Would they be luxury flats?
 such an old building could be a huge mistake.
 Khalid: Maybe. We could have a modern, urban design,
Khalid: Really? I think the project is going to be a great but still using the old architectural materials and
 success. In fact, I think it’s a potential goldmine. features.
Alan: Um, OK. Could you expand on that? Alan: Such as?
Khalid: There’s been a lot of activity in Westside Khalid: We could keep some of the original features
 recently. There is development and renovation going as they are, such as the long, wooden beams used to
 on nearby, and I think it’s really going to transform the support the ceilings and the exposed red brick walls
 area. Westside is becoming popular with people who that help support the roof. They would then become
 work in the financial district, which is close by. Rents a decorative feature.
 are still low there, and a new restaurant opens almost
 Alan: So not traditional flats at all, then?
 every week. I anticipate the neighbourhood becoming
 really trendy. No one has spent much money there Khalid: No, not at all. Very modern.
 in the past 20 years, but investment in the area has Alan: It’s an expensive plan, and not everyone will
 increased in the past year. We’re going to see a lot like it.
 more improvement as well. Khalid: We wouldn’t be the first to do this sort of
Alan: That may be true, but that building is more like a thing, though. We can look at some other examples
 prison than a potential shopping centre. People would around the city where the same thing has been done
 never want to go shopping there. I think the first thing successfully, if you’re interested in the idea.
 we’d need to do would be to knock it down, and that Alan: If we make that the first phase of our planning
 would cost us a lot of money. process, we can make a better decision about how
Khalid: Have you considered renovating the building to balance the traditional and modern features of
 instead of knocking it down? It has some beautiful the project, before we go on to the design and
 original features. building phases.
Alan: It looks as though it’s about to collapse! Khalid: There’s probably a Westside neighbourhood
Khalid: I’m not sure it’s that bad. I think the original association or business association. We could meet
 building has a lot of potential. with them and get their views.
Alan: I think we really want to transform the area with Alan: You’re right. We really should speak to some
 something modern. Why not just start again with a businesspeople in the area and arrange to take a
 new building? better look at the building.
Khalid: If we designed it properly, we could maintain the Khalid: Let’s do it.
 old architectural features, such as the red bricks and
 the stone. Those construction materials would better 5.2
 match the style of some of the other buildings around See script on page 109.
 it. It would reflect the character of the area. We could
 give the old building a new lease of life. 5.3
Alan: Maybe, but I think it would be better to
 Jamal: Maria, John. Thanks for taking the time to meet
 transform the area with an architectural landmark,
 with us.
 something new and contemporary. It would be more
 Maria and John: No problem. / My pleasure.
 of a transformation if we built a modern building
 made of materials like steel and glass. Jamal: We have the first set of plans, and we think
 you’ll be really pleased with what we’ve put together.
Khalid: Couldn’t we do both? We’ll maintain more
 After discussing a lot of options, we now anticipate
 of a connection to the past if we include the old
 building a single eight-storey block of flats.
 building as part of the new one. We could rebuild
 the warehouse using red brick similar to the original Tom: You can see from the pictures here that we are
 structure, and construct a new glass and steel planning on fitting this into the area by using part of
 extension – adding on rather than constructing a the waste ground behind the current housing area.


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 211
 Jamal: One of the biggest benefits of this plan is that it that open, natural area with all the trees. The residents
 will create housing for as many as 200 people. really value having access to nature nearby.
 Maria: I can’t quite tell from the drawing … what Maria: Exactly.
 materials are you going to use? John: As it stands, this plan with the tall, single
 Tom: The outside is made of glass and steel. building and the loss of the woodland would be
 John: And what’s the cost of this plan? very controversial. Wouldn’t it be better if we used
 Jamal: Around eight million pounds. this first design you have supplied to identify a few
 Maria: Eight million? Well, the plan is definitely priorities?
 ambitious! Jamal: Yes, that’s a good idea.
 Jamal: Yes, we’re aware that it’s over the construction Maria: OK … first, we need to think about what will be
 budget of 7.5 million, but we are going to review the appropriate with the existing houses. What about
 budget in light of some of our suggestions. more, smaller, lower buildings? We could have four
 Maria: Well, I have to say, we weren’t expecting the two-storey buildings and, following our original plan,
 building to be so tall. try to house 100 rather than 200 people. That might be
 better.
 John: Exactly. The existing buildings in the
 neighbourhood are no higher than two storeys, and John: And while we like the idea of contemporary
 you’ve placed the new building very close to them. I’m design, I’m not sure glass and steel is appropriate. Lots
 concerned about the other buildings on the site. The of glass is a great idea but, in my view, the only viable
 plan would block daylight for existing homes. We’re option is to use brick, like the existing buildings.
 probably going to get a lot of complaints from the Tom: OK. So we’re talking about four two-storey brick
 current residents. buildings that can house about 25 people each?
 Jamal: We could consider using reflective glass instead, John: Right.
 then. You know, like a mirror. It’s used in big cities to Tom: That seems like an obvious solution, but it doesn’t
 give a feeling of open sky. address the issue of cost.
 Maria: That’s a great idea, but I’m not sure it addresses John: What do you mean?
 the main problem. The real issue here is the height Tom: Well, four smaller buildings will cost more than
 of the building. I strongly recommend that you one larger one.
 reconsider this. After all, we originally suggested John: Well, I guess we’ll have to see the actual costs to
 housing for about 100 people. discuss that. Are we going to perhaps consider only
 Tom: Yes, we’ve doubled that. three buildings?
 Maria: OK. Would you mind telling us a bit more about Tom: Yes, that’s a possibility.
 why you decided that? Jamal: And you mentioned having adequate green
 Jamal: Well, our thinking was that this would increase space. We didn’t realize children play in those woods.
 your company’s income from the building because you We need to be sympathetic to their needs, so we need
 could sell or rent out more flats. to find a different solution. How about we position the
 John: We thought that might be an option at first, new buildings near the edge of the woods?
 too, but now we realize it won’t work. We have to Maria: Yes, that’s possible. We can’t acquire the land
 think about the houses that are already in the area. next to our site because it’s public property, but
 We really need to consider how the new building will we can benefit from being near that open space.
 contribute to the look of the area – that is, how it will The residents would definitely be able to enjoy the
 fit in with the other buildings. views then.
 Tom: When you say ‘fit in’, do you mean we should Tom: I like your thinking. I completely agree.
 copy the style of existing buildings? Jamal: OK, so I think we need to go back and start
 John: No. We don’t expect you to copy, but we also over again.
 don’t want to completely transform the feeling of the John: Yes, I think you’re right. I’m sorry, I hope we didn’t
 area either. So by ‘fit in’, I mean that it should look as waste your time.
 though it belongs there. Our original suggestion was Jamal: Not at all. I think we understand the site a lot
 that the building should reflect the size and materials better now, and I feel confident we can come up with
 of the other buildings in the area. a good plan over the next two weeks.
 Tom: OK, I see what you mean.
 John: I have one other concern. You described the 5.4
 natural area you’d like to build on as waste ground, but
 See script on page 115.
 actually, that’s a woodland. The children who already
 live in the area play there, and we want to maintain


212 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 5.5 going to talk to two of the 11,000 people who live
 here, to find out what’s so special about the island.
 See script on page 118. First, this is Pedro Rodriguez, who owns a seafood
 restaurant on the island. Hello, Pedro.
UNIT 6 Pedro: Hello, Andrew.
 Jeju Island goes carbon-free Reporter: So, how long have you lived on El Hierro?
Narrator: Most countries in the world are trying to Pedro: I haven’t lived here for very long. I came from
 reduce their carbon emissions, in accordance with the Madrid about five years ago.
 Paris Climate Agreement, the international agreement Reporter: You don’t like it here, then?
 to reduce greenhouse gases. Some countries and Pedro: I love it here! I wish I had come a lot sooner
 communities are aiming for carbon neutrality, that than I did. I spent a lot of my life in Madrid.
 is, their goal is to balance their carbon emissions Reporter: City life can be tough. I suppose island life is
 with other actions that will reduce carbon in the rather more relaxing?
 atmosphere, for example, by planting trees. Pedro: Exactly. El Hierro is my home now.
 Some communities are going even further, however. Reporter: So, what’s so great about El Hierro?
 Their aim is not just neutrality; it’s zero emissions. Pedro: In the city, everyone hurries everywhere. You
 They want to be carbon-free. One such community are surrounded by traffic, and you never feel like you
 is the South Korean island of Jeju. A United Nations can really relax. What’s more, my career was in banking,
 Natural Heritage site, it’s often called the Hawaii of which is a particularly stressful job.
 South Korea.
 I love the sound of the sea. I love the peace and
 Jeju is located at the southern tip of the country, has quiet, and I feel free here. City life was never like that.
 600,000 residents and is known for its stunning natural When I was living in the city, I worked in banking, as I
 beauty. Fifteen million visitors come every year, mostly said. It paid well and I was able to buy my restaurant,
 from the Korean mainland, to enjoy the island’s lovely but I should have left the city when I was a much
 beaches, sparkling waterfalls and lush forests. younger man.
 Both the island’s residents and the South Korean Reporter: So you love the quiet life on El Hierro, but is
 government would like to preserve Jeju’s beauty, so there anything else that makes El Hierro special?
 they’ve created a plan to make the island carbon-free
 Pedro: Well, another thing is, El Hierro is completely
 by 2030. Residents and visitors will use only renewable
 energy independent!
 energy sources—wind and solar power. And only
 electric vehicles will be permitted on the island. Reporter: Energy independent?
 There’s been progress towards these goals, but Pedro: Yes. In the past, the power on the island was
 there’s still some way to go. In 2015, there were just produced by oil. A lot of money was paid to ship
 3,319 electric vehicles on Jeju; in 2017 that number 40,000 barrels of oil over from the mainland every
 had doubled. By 2030, there will be 300,000, if all year. It cost the island over 1.7 million euros a year.
 goes according to plan. To encourage people to Now, all our energy is created right here on the island.
 use renewable energy and electric vehicles, the Reporter: And for more about that, we’ll now talk to
 government is helping residents pay for solar panels engineer Sofia Martinez.
 on their homes and for electric vehicles. Jeju is the Sofia: Hello, Andrew.
 ideal size for electric vehicles because you can drive Reporter: I wonder if you could tell us about the way
 all the way around the island on just one charge. you generate energy here on El Hierro.
 But that won’t be necessary. There are already 8,000 Sofia: Well, if you’ve spent a day or two here, you may
 charging stations on Jeju and that number is increasing have noticed we have a lot of wind.
 every year. Reporter: Yes. In fact, it’s blowing pretty hard outside
 South Korea hopes that Jeju will be a model that right now.
 other cities and even countries can learn from. The Sofia: Well, for about 3,000 hours, or for about 35% of
 government also hopes that ‘The Island without the year, the wind here blows hard enough to turn wind
 Carbon’ will attract not just visitors from the Korean turbines, which can provide electricity.
 mainland, but also international eco-tourists to enjoy Reporter: Does El Hierro rely completely on wind to
 the island’s natural beauty. power the island?
 Sofia: No. The island’s wind turbines have a capacity
 6.1 of about 11 megawatts, about enough to power 3,500
Reporter: This is Andrew Thompson, reporting from homes, but it’s only one element. The bigger problem
 the Spanish island of El Hierro, about 400 kilometres is that the wind doesn’t blow all the time, so the power
 off the coast of Africa. It’s pretty far from Madrid, source isn’t consistent.
 which is about 2,000 kilometres away. Today, we’re

 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 213
 Reporter: So you need another energy source on Reporter: You’re a long way from everything out here,
 windless days? aren’t you? It must be difficult sometimes.
 Sofia: That was the challenge: to create an energy Sofia: Yes, it’s a real challenge living here. On the other
 generation system, or a network of systems, that could hand, we all love it. It can be a hard life, but I wouldn’t
 supply enough energy for the island all the time. And live anywhere else.
 the solution was hydroelectric power.
 Reporter: What is hydroelectric power exactly? 6.2
 Sofia: Hydroelectric power is when energy is converted Reporter: This is Andrew Thompson, reporting from
 into another form, such as electricity. The initial source the Spanish island of El Hierro, about 400 kilometres
 of this energy is from water. off the coast of Africa. It’s pretty far from Madrid,
 Reporter: But doesn’t hydroelectric power require a river which is about 2,000 kilometres away. Today, we’re
 and a dam? Isn’t El Hierro too small for a river? going to talk to two of the 11,000 people who live
 Sofia: A river with a dam is the usual way of producing here, to find out what’s so special about the island.
 hydroelectric power, but really, all you need is water First, this is Pedro Rodriguez, who owns a seafood
 that can move from a high place to a lower place to get restaurant on the island. Hello, Pedro.
 energy from the water. Pedro: Hello, Andrew.
 Reporter: OK … Reporter: So, how long have you lived on El Hierro?
 Sofia: At the centre of El Hierro is a dormant volcano – Pedro: I haven’t lived here for very long. I came from
 a volcano that is no longer active. In the middle of the Madrid about five years ago.
 volcano, we built a reservoir that holds over 500,000 Reporter: You don’t like it here, then?
 cubic metres of water, at a height of 700 metres above Pedro: I love it here! I wish I had come a lot sooner
 sea level. So that’s our water in a high place. than I did. I spent a lot of my life in Madrid.
 Reporter: But you don’t get much rain here. What Reporter: City life can be tough. I suppose island life is
 happens when all of the water runs out of the rather more relaxing?
 reservoir?
 Pedro: Exactly. El Hierro is my home now.
 Sofia: Well, I mentioned the wind turbines. The wind
 Reporter: So, what’s so great about El Hierro?
 power and the hydroelectric power are in a network
 together. When the wind is blowing, energy from the Pedro: In the city, everyone hurries everywhere. You
 wind turbines pumps water up into the reservoir. are surrounded by traffic, and you never feel like you
 can really relax. What’s more, my career was in banking,
 Reporter: So the wind turbines power the pumping
 which is a particularly stressful job.
 station?
 I love the sound of the sea. I love the peace and
 Sofia: Right. We also use the wind power for all of our
 quiet, and I feel free here. City life was never like that.
 electrical needs, when it blows. Then when the wind
 When I was living in the city, I worked in banking, as I
 stops, we let water run out of the reservoir and through
 said. It paid well and I was able to buy my restaurant,
 some turbines. The turbines turn generators and we
 but I should have left the city when I was a much
 have hydroelectric power we can access.
 younger man.
 Reporter: So the water flows in a cycle – it’s pumped
 Reporter: So you love the quiet life on El Hierro, but is
 up the hill by the wind power, then it’s released when
 there anything else that makes El Hierro special?
 it’s needed.
 Pedro: Well, another thing is, El Hierro is completely
 Sofia: Yes, that’s right. What’s more, the system
 energy independent!
 also provides our drinking water and water for use
 in agriculture. Reporter: Energy independent?
 Reporter: But where does the water come from? Pedro: Yes. In the past, the power on the island was
 produced by oil. A lot of money was paid to ship
 Sofia: We use seawater.
 40,000 barrels of oil over from the mainland every
 Reporter: But you can’t drink saltwater … year. It cost the island over 1.7 million euros a year.
 Sofia: We have a desalination plant to take the salt out Now, all our energy is created right here on
 of the seawater so it can be used in agriculture and the island.
 as drinking water. We’re constantly adding new water
 and taking stored water out of the cycle as we need 6.3
 to use it. In fact, I’ve just come from the desalination
 plant, where we’re having some problems today. Reporter: And for more about that, we’ll now talk to
 Something isn’t working properly and the replacement engineer Sofia Martinez.
 parts haven’t arrived yet. We’re a long way from the Sofia: Hello, Andrew.
 mainland, so delivery of anything takes at least a few Reporter: I wonder if you could tell us about the way
 days. If they don’t come soon, we may have to ask you generate energy here on El Hierro.
 people to use less water for a few days.
214 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
Sofia: Well, if you’ve spent a day or two here, you may Reporter: But where does the water come from?
 have noticed we have a lot of wind. Sofia: We use seawater.
Reporter: Yes. In fact, it’s blowing pretty hard outside Reporter: But you can’t drink saltwater …
 right now. Sofia: We have a desalination plant to take the salt out
Sofia: Well, for about 3,000 hours, or for about 35% of the seawater so it can be used in agriculture and
 of the year, the wind here blows hard enough to turn as drinking water. We’re constantly adding new water
 wind turbines, which can provide electricity. and taking stored water out of the cycle as we need
Reporter: Does El Hierro rely completely on wind to to use it. In fact, I’ve just come from the desalination
 power the island? plant, where we’re having some problems today.
Sofia: No. The island’s wind turbines have a capacity Something isn’t working properly and the replacement
 of about 11 megawatts, about enough to power 3,500 parts haven’t arrived yet. We’re a long way from the
 homes, but it’s only one element. The bigger problem mainland, so delivery of anything takes at least a few
 is that the wind doesn’t blow all the time, so the days. If they don’t come soon, we may have to ask
 power source isn’t consistent. people to use less water for a few days.
Reporter: So you need another energy source on Reporter: You’re a long way from everything out here,
 windless days? aren’t you? It must be difficult sometimes.
Sofia: That was the challenge: to create an energy Sofia: Yes, it’s a real challenge living here. On the other
 generation system, or a network of systems, that could hand, we all love it. It can be a hard life, but I wouldn’t
 supply enough energy for the island all the time. And live anywhere else.
 the solution was hydroelectric power.
Reporter: What is hydroelectric power exactly? 6.4
Sofia: Hydroelectric power is when energy is converted See script on page 132.
 into another form, such as electricity. The initial source
 of this energy is from water. 6.5
Reporter: But doesn’t hydroelectric power require a See script on page 132.
 river and a dam? Isn’t El Hierro too small for a river?
Sofia: A river with a dam is the usual way of producing 6.6
 hydroelectric power, but really, all you need is water
 1 In certain countries fracking is banned, due to its
 that can move from a high place to a lower place to
 dangerous effects on the environment.
 get energy from the water.
 2 Humans, animals and the environment could all be
Reporter: OK …
 threatened by the use of nuclear energy.
Sofia: At the centre of El Hierro is a dormant volcano –
 3 The community refuses to allow the power company
 a volcano that is no longer active. In the middle of the
 to build a new plant by the river.
 volcano, we built a reservoir that holds over 500,000
 cubic metres of water, at a height of 700 metres above 4 Salt is removed from the water at the desalination
 sea level. So that’s our water in a high place. plant.
Reporter: But you don’t get much rain here. What 5 We are a completely energy-independent country.
 happens when all of the water runs out of the 6 I don’t think we should use fossil fuels at all anymore.
 reservoir?
Sofia: Well, I mentioned the wind turbines. The wind 6.7
 power and the hydroelectric power are in a network Jane: As you all know, there’s been a proposal that we
 together. When the wind is blowing, energy from the should try to reduce our energy consumption here
 wind turbines pumps water up into the reservoir. in the office, both to save money for the business
Reporter: So the wind turbines power the pumping and to help the environment. The function of this
 station? meeting today is to get your ideas on how to do this
Sofia: Right. We also use the wind power for all of and hopefully to come up with a plan to take forward.
 our electrical needs, when it blows. Then when the Would anyone like to start? What are your views? Yes,
 wind stops, we let water run out of the reservoir and Zara.
 through some turbines. The turbines turn generators Zara: Well, if we really want to do something to save
 and we have hydroelectric power we can access. on electricity costs long-term, why don’t we consider
Reporter: So the water flows in a cycle – it’s pumped up an alternative energy source?
 the hill by the wind power, then it’s released when it’s We could install some solar panels on the roof. That
 needed. would generate plenty of environmentally friendly
Sofia: Yes, that’s right. What’s more, the system electricity.
 also provides our drinking water and water for use
 in agriculture.
 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 215
 Jane: That’s not a bad idea. Would anyone like to add Allen: Okay, fine. Sorry about that.
 to Zara’s comments? Allen? Zara: So, we were talking about turning off computer
 Allen: It’s true that we could go for a big solution like screens and turning off the air conditioning, but I don’t
 solar power generation. Even so, I think we could think we should forget about installing solar panels, or
 consider some rather simpler, smaller-scale ideas too, a solar water-heating system.
 like changing to low-energy lightbulbs. There’s a lot of Jane: But there are some drawbacks to that, such as
 potential to save energy there. installation cost, which Abdul mentioned.
 Jane: I think that’s a great point, Allen. Abdul, would you Abdul: Right, and there’s also the problem of—
 like to expand on that? Simon: Can I just say, by the way­—
 Abdul: Yes. Allen’s lightbulb idea is a really good one. Jane: Sorry, but could you hold that thought until
 Energy-efficient bulbs aren’t hugely expensive to Abdul has finished, please?
 install. In addition, they pay for themselves quickly. Simon: Sure. Sorry.
 Jane: Pay for themselves? Abdul: The fact is, both systems Zara mentioned are
 Abdul: They don’t use much energy, so they’re cheap technically complex and expensive to install. There’s
 to run. It means they will soon save us more money also the problem of maintenance; we’d need to pay
 than the cost of the new bulbs. Although these an engineer to come to do repairs if anything went
 energy-efficient bulbs are expensive, we would save wrong and for expensive parts that needed to be
 enough money in one year to pay for them. replaced. There could be a real decline in the amount
 Jane: I see. Do you have any other ideas? of money we save if we ran into operational problems.
 Abdul: Yes. Some of the ideas are very simple: cleaning Jane: Can I just clarify something here? Abdul, is
 our dirty windows, for example. As a result of that, this experimental technology, or have alternative-
 we’ll allow more natural light in. Furthermore, we can energy generation systems been successful in other
 turn off our computer screens when we get up from office environments?
 our desks. Abdul: Well, every small-scale system is different
 Jane: Yes, Zara. because every building is different. The technology
 Zara: We could also consider turning off the air would have to be specially designed for our building in
 conditioning when it isn’t too hot, so we can use order to be efficient.
 less energy. Allen: I can’t help but feel that a solar energy project
 Jane: Great idea. would be too ambitious. There would probably be
 Zara: We could get rid of one of our photocopiers, as technical limitations about the sort of system we
 we don’t really need two. The current machines use could install on the office roof. I’m not sure it’s even
 energy even when they’re on standby. possible, or if the local government would let us.
 Jane: Also a good plan. Now, I’d like to go back to Abdul. Jane: I can assure you that the company wouldn’t do
 Abdul, you said we should consider smaller-scale anything unsafe or illegal.
 solutions to our energy consumption here. Are you Zara: It could be good publicity, though. We could
 saying you’re against installing a solar energy system? market ourselves as a complete green business.
 Abdul: No, I really like that idea because once it’s Simon: Maybe we should have some of our marketing
 installed, the system will have a low operating cost, people look at that. I think—
 and it’s an environmentally friendly way to generate Jane: We’re getting sidetracked. Can we stick to the
 electricity, which are two big positive points; but there main points of the meeting? We should probably
 are other considerations. For example, we’d have to move on to the next part of the agenda, so I’d just
 look at the generating capacity of the system. It’s very like to summarize the key points so far. First of all, we
 expensive to buy and install, and if it doesn’t produce want to immediately start making the simple energy-
 a lot of power, it’ll end up costing rather than saving us saving changes mentioned, such as cleaning the
 money, at least for the first few years. The challenge is windows, turning off computer screens and installing
 to choose ways of saving energy that also save money energy-saving lightbulbs. Second, we want to look
 right now. into possible larger-scale alternative-energy systems
 Allen: Yes, I agree with that. The other real such as solar panels or a solar water-heating system.
 environmental problem we have here in the office is However, we need to do a lot of research in that area
 rubbish. Most of us buy our lunch in plastic containers to see if we could get permission to install a system on
 that have to be thrown away. It’s a disgrace. We really the roof. A positive to installing a larger-scale project
 should try to reduce the volume of rubbish we create would be that it could generate good publicity for the
 here in the office. company. Have I missed anything?
 Jane: Sorry, but that’s not really what we’re discussing Abdul: You didn’t mention …
 right now. We can deal with waste and recycling later.
 Right now we’re talking specifically about energy use.

216 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 6.8 are great opportunities while the market is young to …
 to really start collecting in this field in a serious way.
A: So, to summarize the key points so far: we agree that Narrator: O’Leary describes the work of El Anatsui:
 we want to reduce energy consumption and we want
 Heather O’Leary: The initial inspiration for these pieces
 to consider an alternative energy source. Does anyone
 was the traditional kante cloth from Ghana. His father
 have anything to say about a solar energy system?
 was a … a master weaver of kante cloth and so you
B: I’m more concerned about our water usage. can see here that, erm … he’s used the colours of
A: Sorry, but that’s not really what we’re discussing Ghana, the yellow and the red of … that appear in the
 right now. Ghanaian flag and the black erm … and … and then also
 the silver of the aluminium which looks like … like silver
 6.9 from a distance as … as he also uses gold in the same
 See script on page 143. way so he’s taking these discarded objects and creating
 shimmering, precious metal, sheets of precious metals
UNIT 7 out of them.

 Contemporary African art sale 7.1
Narrator: The African art market is heating up, as more Reporter: Hello from the city centre. Overnight, the
 and more art lovers have begun to collect African art. area’s mystery graffiti artist has struck again. Although
 In 2017, the auction house Sotheby’s held a modern the identity of the painter remains unknown, their
 and contemporary African art sale for the first time, work is making an impact on the community. This
 with 80 works from 60 artists from 14 countries. large image has been painted on the side of an office
 Probably the most well-known of these artists is El building. A lot of people in the street on their way
 Anatsui. He was born in Ghana but works primarily to work are stopping to look at it. Let’s talk to a few of
 in Nigeria, where he creates stunning textiles from them and find out what they think of this latest spray-
 bottle caps and old aluminium cans. This work sold for painted image.
 £416,750 at the Sotheby’s sale.
 Hello, excuse me?
 The work of South African artist, Irma Stein, whose
 Alex: Yes?
 paintings have lately sold for millions of dollars, was
 also represented. Her 1942 painting, Sunflowers, went Reporter: I’m reporting on the recent increase in street
 for £728,750. art in the city centre. Can I ask you a few questions?
 Yinka Shonabare was born in Britain but grew up in Alex: Sure.
 Nigeria. His work explores issues of race and class Reporter: What’s your name?
 across a wide range of media, including textiles, Alex: It’s Alex.
 sculpture, painting and photography. This sculpture, Reporter: So, Alex, what do you think of this new
 Crash Willy, fetched £224,750 at the Sotheby’s auction. artistic addition to the neighbourhood?
 Heather O’Leary, head of Modern and Contemporary Alex: This street art? I think it’s great. It’s something
 Art at Sotheby’s, explains the motivation behind interesting to look at, and it looks good, doesn’t it? I
 the sale. live around the corner, so this is on my doorstep.
Heather O’Leary: Sotheby’s has really been watching Reporter: What do you like about it?
 this market grow over the last few years. It’s still Alex: I just think it’s cool – it has a distinctive style. At
 quite a young market, but in the last five to ten years first glance, it looks like the painting was done in a
 we’ve seen phenomenal growth and that’s really a few minutes. But in fact, it’s not just spray painting;
 combination of erm … African buyers erm … collecting it’s the work of a talented artist. It really decorates
 art, also museums collecting art from Africa and there the area, and I think the creativity makes a very ugly
 have been auction houses erm … both here in Europe neighbourhood a lot better looking.
 and in Africa who have been … who have started new Reporter: Does everyone in the area like it?
 sales where they offer art from Africa. Alex: Most of my neighbours do. We think this kind of
 In this auction, for example, I think we have three thing could become a special feature of the area. It’s
 artists who sell in our contemporary art auctions, but a real shame that it’s going to be covered up before
 we have over sixty, we have sixty artists here that many people have had a chance to see it.
 don’t, so erm … there was a real need for … for an Reporter: Covered up?
 auction in which to place them and … and we know
 Alex: The police are going to paint over it soon because
 that there’s a demand from the market as well.
 street art is illegal.
 The lowest erm … estimate in the sales start at £1000
 Reporter: Oh, right. Yes, we’ll come back to that in a
 and the … even the most expensive piece in the same
 minute. Thanks for talking to us.
 is valued at less than £1,000,000 and so I do think there


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 217
 Alex: No problem. Reporter: What would you recommend for people
 Reporter: Clearly some people really like the painting. who want to express themselves through street art?
 However, there’s also already been some criticism of Police officer: My recommendation? Well, if this artist
 the piece. Let’s see what more we can find out about wants to paint where everyone can see the artwork,
 this side of the story. he or she should get permission. We can work with
 Hello, excuse me? street artists to create art that people have chosen to
 Office worker: Yes? have in their community.
 Reporter: I’m finding out what people think of street Reporter: So you mean you can give someone
 art in this area. Can I ask you a few questions? permission to paint graffiti?
 Office worker: I’m just on my way into the office, so Police officer: Yes, well, sort of. However, they have
 you’ll have to be quick. to apply for a permit and get approval and so on. This
 Reporter: What do you think of this painting? makes it a legal activity rather than vandalism.
 Office worker: I don’t really like it. It’s just graffiti, Reporter: Thanks a lot for talking with us.
 isn’t it? Police officer: My pleasure.
 Reporter: What do you mean? Reporter: Next, I have an art critic here who agrees
 Office worker: The people who own this building with some people about the quality of the latest
 didn’t ask for this, did they? I mean, what right does street painting. This is Simone James, an art gallery
 this person have to spray paint their message here? owner and art critic. Hello, Simone.
 If somebody wants to express themselves in this Simone: Hello.
 way, they should get permission. I’d be really angry if Reporter: Simone, could you comment on the latest
 someone did this in my neighbourhood. creation of our illegal painter?
 Reporter: Do you think it’s a work of art? Simone: Many people think that the painting is just
 Office worker: No, not at all. Art is an exhibition in an rough spray painting. However, the fact of the matter
 art gallery. This is just somebody spraying paint onto is the artist has created a very expressive piece of
 a wall in the middle of the night. Like I said, it’s just artwork using very basic tools and materials. The
 self-expression. colour scheme and the composition work very well
 Reporter: Yes, I see what you mean. Thanks for taking a together. It’s a strong piece. If this artist were to
 minute to talk. exhibit and sell their work, I think he or she could
 make a lot of money.
 Office worker: You’re welcome.
 Reporter: Do you have any idea who the artist might
 Reporter: I think it would be a good idea to get a
 be?
 professional view on this now. I have a local police
 officer with me. Simone: I have no idea at all, but technically, the work
 really is very good, so I’d like to find out!
 Hello, and thanks for talking to me today.
 Reporter: Thank you very much. Finally, there’s one
 Police officer: Hello.
 more person I’d like to speak with. This is Joseph,
 Reporter: What’s your view on the latest work of the who’s 15. Joseph, what do you think of the mystery
 mystery painter? artist’s latest painting?
 Police officer: Well, to be honest, as a piece of art, I Joseph: I wish I’d done it! I think it’s really good.
 actually really like it, despite the fact that it’s illegal.
 Reporter: What do you like about it?
 However, I also completely agree with the person you
 just spoke with. We can’t have this sort of thing. It is Joseph: I think this type of art is a really good way
 vandalism, and it is against the law. of expressing your ideas. I don’t know who did it,
 but I guess it’s a young person like me and by doing
 Reporter: It’s against the law?
 this kind of art in this way, on the streets, the artist
 Police officer: Yes. Vandalism is a crime, because it is is communicating a message about how young
 intentionally damaging property that belongs to the people feel.
 city or to other people.
 Reporter: OK, thanks, Joseph. So we’ve had a full range
 Reporter: I’m very interested to hear you call this piece of responses to the latest street art in the city centre.
 of vandalism a work of art. However, the true identity of the graffiti painter
 Police officer: It is artistic, though, isn’t it? I couldn’t remains a mystery.
 paint that. The person who did this, especially very
 quickly and at night, is very creative. This painting is 7.2
 really expressive, but I have to stress that it’s illegal,
 and therefore we’re going to paint over it later today. See script on page 153.
 We remove all graffiti because it’s the law.


218 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 7.3 Robert: OK, thank you all for your comments. I think
 we need to find out how much new art would cost us.
Robert: … Okay everyone, are we ready to get back We’ll have to get an art expert to analyze the pieces
 to business? The next item to look at today is the we already have and like, and maybe we can restore
 proposed budget to continue paying for public art them rather than buy new ones.
 in City Park. We’ve recently had to spend a lot of Would anyone else like to make a comment?
 money repairing and restoring the sculpture we Yes, Azra?
 commissioned last year because vandals have broken
 Azra: If we decide against commissioning further public
 parts of it. We’ve also spent a lot of time and money
 art, we’ll need to put something in its place.
 removing graffiti from it. The council finance office has
 confirmed that the total bill for cleaning and repairs Bilal: Like building the leisure centre instead.
 has come to more than £7,000 so far this year. There’s Sandra: You say that, Bilal, but I’m not sure that would
 been a proposal that we sell the sculpture, stop paying be popular enough. We’d need to talk to a lot of
 for new public art and use the money to pay for a new people to gather data and opinions about whether
 leisure centre. Would anyone like to comment on this? they like the art or if they want a new building, and
Bilal: Yes, Robert, I’d like to say something. this might reveal some really good ideas we haven’t
 thought of.
Robert: OK, Bilal. Go ahead.
 Robert: Yes, I think you’re right, Sandra. Let’s put
Bilal: Personally, I’m not really sure that paying for art is
 together a survey. It can ask about commissioning
 an appropriate way to spend public money.
 more art or building a leisure centre. We can also
 We assume that we should invest in art since so many include three or four other ideas on spending public
 other parks have art but, in reality, it’s costing us a lot money. Then we can ask people to respond to it.
 of money, and the art doesn’t really benefit the city’s Would anyone like to say anything else? Yes, Claudia?
 population. A lot of people simply don’t appreciate or
 Claudia: For me, there’s a public safety issue here. The
 like to interpret art. The truth of the matter is, more
 police reports have shown that kids climb on the
 people would use and benefit from a leisure centre.
 public art we have there now. This happens almost
Robert: If I understand you correctly, Bilal, you’re every night, and they’re breaking it and writing graffiti
 saying that we shouldn’t spend more money on it. This artwork really is causing more problems than
 commissioning art? it’s worth.
Bilal: Well, yes. I think public art is a waste of money. Ahmad: You may be right, Claudia, but I wonder if it’s
Robert: I see. Yes, Ahmad, would you like to the location of the artwork rather than the artwork
 add something? itself that’s the problem.
Ahmad: Yes, thank you, Robert. I see what you mean, Bilal: In other words, you think we should move it?
 Bilal, and I’m not an expert, but it’s been said that Ahmad: I think moving it might solve the vandalism
 art, and appreciating art, is an important part of any problem. It seems as if the art is just costing us money
 culture. OK, it’s true that some people say we’re for cleaning and repairs. If we were to display it in
 wasting money by commissioning public art, but the a different spot, we probably wouldn’t have these
 fact of the matter is that art is an important part of problems. Plus, we’d still contribute to the culture of
 any culture. Art can help make us proud of our city, the city by having the art available.
 and a lot of people really enjoy looking at it. We had
 Sandra: I agree with Ahmad. I think we could consider
 400,000 visitors to our city art gallery and museum last
 moving the sculpture to the front of the council
 year, so people are interested in it.
 building, or next to the hospital, or possibly even
Azra: That’s true, Ahmad. Research has demonstrated inside the main shopping centre. In fact, the shopping
 over and over again that art can have a very positive centre has already expressed interest in this because
 effect on people. they believe public artwork could be a tourist
Robert: Thank you, Ahmad and Azra. Yes, Sandra, you attraction. If we planned it properly, we could get
 wanted to say something? people to see the artwork and do some shopping at
Sandra: Ahmad and Azra have good points, but one the same time!
 other thing to remember is that, although many Bilal: So, Sandra, what you’re saying is that you’d
 people think that art is worth a lot of money because definitely rather move the current sculpture we have
 it’s by famous artists or because the city invested in it, to another location?
 we don’t actually know that the art is worth anything. Sandra: Yes, that’s right.
 Look at the sculpture there now, for example. Since it’s
 Robert: OK, yes, those ideas make sense. I think we need
 been damaged and repaired so much, we don’t know
 to do more research here. First, we need to focus on
 if we can sell the sculpture, even to a private collector.
 identifying some places where future public art could
 Do we really want to invest in more art?
 be displayed. We need to reject any places where we


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 219
 feel vandals would be likely to damage it. Second, we Tim Cook, the head of Apple, heard about Wakamiya
 need to consider the cost of our current piece of art, and her app. Calling her work ‘inspiring,’ he invited her
 the sculpture that is already there in the park. to an app developers’ conference. At 82, she was the
 Sandra: There’s one other point I’d like to raise. oldest participant.
 Robert: OK. Go ahead, Sandra. Describing her experience developing the app,
 Sandra: What would we do with the money if Wakamiya recalls:
 we didn’t commission any new art or build the Wakamiya: Elderly people don’t play games on their
 leisure centre? phones much because games aren’t interesting for
 Robert: That’s a good question. The money would be them. I’ve heard a lot of people say that. So, I thought
 put back into the budget, and we’d have to determine it would be nice if there were some apps which elderly
 a project that reflects what people really want. people could enjoy. This game is based on traditional
 Ahmad: Well, a leisure centre, or any other centre, is Japanese culture. I wanted to tell the next generation
 a good thing, but it isn’t art. I think our children need about traditional culture. I thought that making a
 to see art in public places, especially the work of a game and letting young people play it would be easier
 famous artist, right here in our city. We need to have than explaining culture to them. When I first saw the
 a balance of investment in leisure activities and public pictures moving, I was really impressed. First, I create
 art in the lives of our children. the images. Then I run the simulation and they start
 moving and talking. It’s really impressive. Programming
 Robert: OK, I think we need to look into this. We need
 is the best way for me to feel a sense of achievement.
 to explore our options in more detail. Are there any
 other comments on this topic? No? OK. We’ll move
 on, then …
 8.1
 Host: Hello and welcome to the Money and Finance
 7.4 podcast. I’m your host, Ian Brown, and today’s topic is
 retirement. In the past, giving up work in their sixties
 See script on page 165.
 signalled the end of an active, exciting life for people.
 It was seen as a time for staying at home, doing the
 UNIT 8 gardening and being very careful with money. Twenty
 Never too old to code years ago, most people planned to leave a large sum
 Narrator: Masako Wakamiya has always been a woman of money to their children upon their death and
 of action, ready to take on challenges. She was a didn’t spend a lot on themselves once they started to
 banker before it was common for women in Japan to receive a pension.
 have such jobs, and when she retired at 60, she began But times have changed. People nowadays don’t
 a new chapter in her life, with new challenges. She usually think of their sixties as old. People who have
 had never used a computer before, but she read that exercised and eaten a good diet throughout their
 using a computer could help her connect with other lives have plenty of energy to enjoy life, no matter
 people while she stayed at home to look after her what age they retire at. Many of today’s older people
 elderly mother. So, she bought one. Over the next see retirement as a reward for a lifetime of hard work
 20 years, she taught herself about computers and the and, rather than saving their money to give to their
 internet. She got a smartphone and started using apps, children, they’re spending it – on luxuries, travel, new
 but she found that everything was designed for young cars and meals out, and because they worked hard
 people. She knew that older people could learn to use and saved hard for their retirement, they have plenty
 technology, and even have fun doing it, if someone of money to spend. As a group, the over-60s in the
 designed with them in mind. UK have over 500 billion pounds in assets: property,
 She contacted app designers and asked them to money in the bank, investments and so on. Last year,
 develop games for older users, but no one was they spent £240 billion on leisure, accounting for more
 interested. So, she did what she had always done: she than 60% of all consumer spending. This included £345
 did it herself. She learned Apple’s coding language so million on meals out and £535 million on travel. The
 she could develop an app for the iPhone. She used average married person between the ages of 65 and
 content that is familiar to older Japanese users: figures 74 spent 26% of their household income on food and
 from the Japanese festival Hinamatsuri, or Doll’s Day. entertainment.
 On this day, dolls are placed on a platform in a specific Rick and Nadia Jones are typical of this new approach
 order. In Wakamiya’s game, the goal is to place all the to retirement. I asked them to share their thoughts.
 figures in the correct order. The game is harder than it Nadia: Well, in my working life I was a banker and Rick
 sounds; the arrangements are complex. was in business. We both retired at 65, and since that
 time we’ve travelled a lot and have had years of fun


220 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 and excitement. A lot of our friends are doing the Rick: I think we both feel we’ve done our bit as parents.
 same. We’re still healthy and we love travelling, so We have many happy, healthy years ahead of us and
 why shouldn’t we? I had to persuade Rick to agree to still have other things we want to do with our lives,
 the idea at first. It just wasn’t like that for our parents. and now we’re doing them. I’d advise everyone else to
 However, we’ve managed to save enough money to do the same.
 permit us to live the life we’ve always wanted, and I
 think we’ve earned it. 8.2
Rick: We’ve been to Australia, New Zealand and South See script on page 175.
 Africa – and Nadia loves the weather in Dubai! We’ve
 been there three times. 8.3
Host: According to one survey, 20 years ago most of
 today’s older people believed they would work in the Mika: Hello. My name is Mika. I’m going to discuss how
 garden, read and babysit their grandchildren. However, things are changing for elderly people in Japan. I’ll begin
 retired people now want to do more exciting things! by explaining the importance of family in Japan and
 Do you agree with this? present some figures that explain how the population
 is changing. Finally, I’ll talk about the way the Japanese
Nadia: I do, I think. We worked hard during our
 government is dealing with the ageing population.
 careers to ensure that our two daughters had a good
 education. They’re both married and working now. I Family in Japan has been very important since the days
 want to be involved in my children’s lives, but I do also of my ancestors. However, while the extended family
 want adventure! We live close to both our daughters is very important in other countries, the focus in Japan
 and offer to babysit our grandchildren regularly, but is on the bond among children, parents, grandparents,
 we’re not free childminders! and so on. Of course, this means that in many cases,
 when elderly people can no longer take care of
Rick: Exactly. We don’t have any dependents anymore.
 themselves, they move in with their children.
 Our daughters need to work hard and save their
 money, just as we’ve done. Our savings allow us to Japan’s population is about 127 million, and it has
 do what we want to do. This is our chance to have one of the highest life expectancies in the world.
 some fun, and we don’t want to stay at home all day If you look at the data I’ve provided, you will note
 gardening and watching television. Our daughters have that it indicates there were about 33 million people
 agreed to support our choices, and we hope they’ll in 2014 over the age of 65 in Japan, nearly 26% of
 make the same choices for themselves one day. the population. By 2050, Japan’s population will be
 about 99 million and 35% of the population will be
Nadia: I think our parents’ generation thought it was
 over 65. The population of children under the age of
 really important to save for the next generation, to
 14 is expected to fall from about 19 million to about
 give money to their children, but our generation
 18 million in 2020 and 12 million by 2050. This can be
 doesn’t think that way.
 traced back to a low fertility rate, that is, the number
Rick: We’ve talked to our daughters about it. They
 of children being born to a woman during the time
 understand that the money is ours to spend. They also
 she is able to have children. That fertility rate has
 understand that as long as we’re in shape and healthy,
 dropped to just below 1.5 children per woman. Young
 we might as well enjoy life. Our home is also worth
 Japanese people are waiting longer than their parents’
 about £500,000. We are not planning on selling it, so
 generation to get married and, when they do, they’re
 they’ll get that eventually.
 having fewer children. Young people now enjoy a lot
Host: Recent research shows that about two-thirds of free time in their twenties and thirties, but this
 of older people agree with Rick and Nadia and also results in the same issues that other countries are
 plan to leave their home to their children, but no facing: more and more elderly people to take care of,
 money. But what about the next generation? Today’s with fewer younger people to be providers. As the
 working generation is probably facing a more difficult population of Japan is set to decrease by 22% by 2050,
 retirement than their parents. Pensions are getting this means a loss of about 28 million residents.
 smaller, many companies are no longer providing
 The Japanese government has taken steps to deal
 pensions at all and the average age of retirement is
 with the situation. Most Japanese people between
 increasing. According to the United Nations, about
 the ages of 40 and 65 pay an income tax that goes to
 18% of Europeans aged 65 and over are still working,
 help those over 65. The over-65s don’t get the money
 but that number is increasing. By the year 2030, more
 directly, but the government supports them. Even
 than 20% of European people aged 65 and over will
 elderly people living at home with family have a care
 still have regular jobs. Should these parents be doing
 worker who makes sure they have everything they
 more? Rick?
 need. Some elderly people go to a day-care centre


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 221
 a few times a week, where they can share meals and
 participate in social activities. Those elderly people
 who don’t live with family generally live in institutions,
 like care homes, with about nine people living in one
 home. Each has a bedroom, and they share a living
 room and kitchen. This enables them to have some
 independence and to feel cared for at the same time.
 Ahmet: My name is Ahmet. Thank you, Mika, for your
 interesting presentation. My topic today is how elderly
 people are cared for in Turkey. First, I’ll give some
 background on how the elderly are usually cared for.
 After that, I’ll talk about some of the drawbacks and
 benefits of this system, and I’ll finish by explaining the
 challenges ahead.
 Mika explained that many elderly people in Japan live
 in institutions when their ability to care for themselves
 declines. Moving old people into care homes allows
 the younger generation to continue their lives without
 having to worry about daily care for an ageing parent.
 However, in Turkey, 80% of households have an older
 person. Many families see this as the natural solution
 to dealing with old age. As parents, we devote
 ourselves to our children. In turn, as adults, we devote
 ourselves to our ageing parents. Most people my age
 have a grandparent living at home.
 The system has drawbacks, both for the families
 caring for elderly people and for the elderly people
 themselves. Those responsible for the welfare of an
 elderly person can feel that they aren’t free to do as
 they like in their own home. The older people being
 cared for may also not feel completely free and
 dislike the way things are done by their caregivers.
 Living closely together in forced circumstances can
 raise tensions. However, there are many benefits to
 these arrangements. In many households, older people
 contribute to the family by participating in domestic
 jobs and helping with childcare. This gives them
 something to do and a sense of responsibility.
 Turkey’s population is just over 81 million today. If you
 look at the graph I’ve provided, you will see that more
 than 5 million people, or around 6%, are over 65. This is
 much lower than Japan’s 26%. UN projections indicate
 that by 2050, Turkey’s population will reach 92 million
 and about 18 million people, or 20% of the total, will
 be over 65. So we can see that in the long-term, the
 same challenges lie ahead for Turkey as for Japan.
 However, for now, the solution is for Turks to continue
 caring for the elderly at home.

 8.4
 See script on page 187.


222 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
