VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
UNIT 1 they have all helped humans explore their land and
 transport goods from one place to another. But is this
 The mental skills of chimpanzees fair? What about animal rights? To argue for this issue
Narrator: For 30 years, scientists at Georgia State today we have Amy Johnson, an animal rights activist
 University have been studying the mental skills of and writer. To argue against the issue is Dr Jacob
 chimpanzees. They’re finding out if chimpanzees can Kuryan. Dr Kuryan is a professor of zoology, which is
 plan ahead and how much they plan ahead. the scientific study of animals, and a writer of several
Man: OK, I’m going to set up the computer, books on animal welfare. You both have two minutes
 right here. to introduce your point of view. Ms Johnson, would
Narrator: They use a computer maze to find you like to begin?
 out about the chimpanzee’s ability. In the wild, Ms Johnson: Thank you for inviting me to this
 chimpanzees have to find food and protect debate. It’s well known that animals have worked
 themselves, so they probably need to make plans. side by side with humans for thousands of years.
 But how good are they at planning? In fact, they helped us develop our civilization and
 One of the chimpanzees, named Panzee, is excellent. helped humans survive. Animals, like elephants and
 She can often complete difficult mazes that she’s horses, were used to build amazing structures, like the
 never seen before better than humans. pyramids in Egypt. Yet their hard work and suffering
 are hardly ever recognized. For example, horses,
Man: Tell me what you want.
 camels and elephants were used to transport armies
Narrator: This is an amazing discovery! Panzee and soldiers during wars and many of these animals
 doesn’t make many mistakes and she can sometimes died in these wars. And there are other examples.
 see the solution to the maze faster than a human can. Even now, dogs are used to pull sleds in cold climates
 The ability to look ahead and find the way from and elephants are used for logging. These animals
 the beginning to the end of the maze means she’s work long hours and live in difficult conditions.
 very smart. However, they get very little reward. Humans just use
 And it means that planning before acting is not just a them to their advantage. My main argument is that
 human skill. in the modern world, there is no longer any need to
Scientist: Chimpanzees do plan ahead. I don’t use animals for work. We have technology that can
 believe that they can plan ahead nearly so far as we replace them. It’s similar to using children to work in
 can. I think also that they reflect upon the past but factories. Two hundred years ago, factory owners got
 not to the degree that we do. I would suggest that rich by using children. Nowadays, people still get rich
 chimpanzees are able to plan ahead over the course by using animals to do work for them. The problem is
 of several days, whereas we can plan ahead for years that the animals have no one to represent them and
 or centuries if we wish. protect their rights. Even though animals work hard
 for us, they are often abandoned when they get sick
 1.1 or too old to work. They suffer. In short, I strongly
Host: Hello and welcome. Today’s debate is on believe that using animals for work is an old-fashioned
 using animals for work. The first animal that was and cruel practice.
 domesticated by humans is the dog. Even now, dogs Host: Thank you, Ms Johnson. Dr Kuryan – your
 are still used to protect our houses and keep us introduction, please.
 safe. Other domesticated animals – used for food Dr Kuryan: Thank you. It’s true that animals have
 – include sheep, cows and goats. The first donkeys helped our civilization develop. Camels and horses
 were used by humans approximately 6,000 years ago helped us carry goods across huge distances. Dogs
 in Egypt. Horses were domesticated 5,000 years ago helped us hunt and protected us from wild animals.
 in Europe and Asia. All these animals have been used Humans don’t have the skills or strength to do
 to help human beings survive, either by providing these jobs. I want to argue that, in many developing
 food or by working for us. Horses, camels, elephants – countries, poor people still need animals to survive.

 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 201
 These are people who can’t afford cars, house alarms increased threat of oil spills. Contact with oil will kill
 or expensive machines. Another point is that not polar bears. And the oil ships are also dangerous to
 all animal use is abuse. On the contrary, without polar bears.
 humans, these domesticated animals would not have However, there is good news: it may not be too
 been able to survive. They need us to take care of late to save the polar bear. Here’s what people are
 them. There are many animal lovers around the world already doing.
 who work in animal shelters and help animals. There First, Arctic communities are trying to reduce contact
 are laws that stop animal suffering. And people give between humans and polar bears. More lights in
 a lot of money to animal charities and organizations public places, electric fences and warning plans when
 that help save wildlife. At the same time, there are still bears enter towns all help to protect both polar bears
 millions of children in the world who don’t get this and humans.
 kind of treatment. They go without food or clothing. Second, governments have made laws which limit
 I strongly believe that, in a modern society, people the amount of oil production in the Arctic. And
 often care more about animals than they do about environmental groups are creating plans to make
 poor people. Arctic shipping safer.
 Host: Thank you both for your arguments! Now, let’s Third, people are trying to stop climate change.
 hear from our listeners … And you can, too. To help save polar bears, you
 should use less electricity and petrol. And you
 1.2 could tell government leaders your opinion about
 Hello, and thank you all for coming. I know that climate change. It might also be a good idea to get
 you’re all busy students and I appreciate that you’re involved with organizations which are working to
 here today. save polar bears.
 So, what do you think of when you hear the words So, to summarize, the main threat to polar bears is
 climate change? You probably think about warmer loss of habitat due to climate change. Related threats
 temperatures, floods, droughts, huge storms … and are human contact and industrial development.
 maybe polar bears. That’s what I’m going to talk about If people don’t make changes quickly, polar bears
 today – the polar bear and the human threats to this may disappear.
 beautiful, powerful, majestic animal.
 It’s widely known that polar bears are now an
 1.3
 endangered species. There are only about 26,000 1 First, Arctic communities are trying to reduce contact
 polar bears in the world today and it’s believed between humans and polar bears.
 that most of them will be gone by 2050 if nothing 2 Second, governments have made laws which limit the
 changes. There are several threats to polar bears. amount of oil production in the Arctic.
 The biggest threat is the loss of sea ice habitat. 3 So, to summarize, the main threat to polar bears is
 Climate change damages the sea ice, which polar loss of habitat due to climate change.
 bears depend on for survival.
 The disappearing ice has several negative effects. For 1.4
 example, polar bears have problems searching for … beautiful, powerful, majestic …
 seals, their main source of food. Polar bears need to
 stand on ice to hunt for seals. So when there isn’t 1.5
 enough ice, the bears become hungry. … warmer temperatures, floods, droughts,
 A second threat is contact between humans and huge storms …
 polar bears. When the sea ice melts, polar bears
 1.6
 have to spend more time on land. When polar bears
 go near towns, people sometimes kill the bears to 1 large, white, strong
 protect themselves. 2 pandas, sea turtles, chimpanzees, tigers
 A third human threat to polar bears is industrial 3 human contact, climate change,
 development, such as oil production and shipping. industrial development
 As the ice disappears, the ocean is growing. This
 4 more lights, electric fences, warning plans
 means more oil production in the Arctic and an

202 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 1.7 This was the answer.
 Discovery is a special ship that can rise completely out
 It’s often said that it’s cruel to use animals for
 of the water on giant ‘legs’. It made a safe building area
 entertainment. However, I would like to argue
 in the middle of the sea possible.
 against this idea. I know that many animal lovers
 would disagree with me, but let me explain my And it could hold all the parts to build each
 point of view. wind turbine.
 First of all, keeping animals in zoos helps protect These huge pieces of the turbine look like airplane
 them. For example, many species, such as the giant wings. They were designed to get as much energy as
 panda and the snow leopard, are endangered in the possible, even from light winds.
 wild, so they are safer in zoos. Another point is that But as you can imagine, they were difficult to
 zoos have an important educational role. For instance, assemble, especially in windy weather.
 children can see animals up close. When I was a child, It took a team effort. Everything had to line
 my father took me to the zoo. I learned about exotic up perfectly.
 animals and I also learned to care about animals. Success!
 Modern zoos have improved their conditions. Animals Each one of these wind turbines is almost 400 feet
 are no longer kept in small cages and zoos have large across. That’s 120 metres, about as big as the London
 areas where animals can feel as if they are in their Eye. And they built 175 of them.
 natural habitat. Every turbine can provide power for 3,000 homes. So
 To summarize, zoos help protect animals and now, because of the London Array wind farm, over
 educate us. In short, modern zoos are comfortable, half a million homes in England have clean electricity.
 safe places for wild animals. In conclusion, I believe
 that we should help zoos by visiting them and 2.1
 donating money. 1 Today I want to explain some alternative solutions.
 1.8 2 As we all know, in order to grow plants we need
 water and sunlight.
1 First of all, keeping animals in zoos helps protect
 3 I think that desert farms might be a very interesting
 them.
 way to farm in the future.
2 For example, many species, such as the giant panda
 4 If you add the nutrients to water, you can grow fruit
 and the snow leopard, are endangered
 and vegetables in water.
 in the wild.
3 Another point is that zoos have an important 2.2
 educational role. Good morning. Today I want to explain some
4 To summarize, zoos help protect animals and alternative solutions which may help reduce some
 educate us. of the problems related to climate change. The first
5 In short, modern zoos are comfortable, safe places for solution uses solar energy to grow food in the desert.
 wild animals. First of all, I’ll explain how farming in the desert works.
 Then, we’ll briefly discuss how this type of farming
UNIT 2 could solve some of the environmental problems we
 are now facing. We’ll discuss some possible problems
 Blowing in the wind: offshore wind farms with this system.
Narrator: We humans use a lot of energy and So, how does it work? As we all know, in order to
 some traditional energy sources are running out. grow plants we need water and sunlight. There’s a
 Where can we find alternative energy sources? lot of sunlight in the desert, but very little water.
 These days, one popular source is wind. Scientists have combined solar energy with a farming
 In 2013 the largest offshore wind farm opened here in technology called hydroponics. Hydroponics means
 the open sea. growing plants in water. Plants don’t need to grow
 It’s called the London Array and it’s located about 12 in the ground, but they do need nutrients to help
 miles from the southeast coast of England. them grow. Nutrients are like food for the plants. So,
 How was it possible to build this giant wind farm in if you add the nutrients to water, you can grow fruit
 the water?
 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 203
 and vegetables in water. NASA scientists have been 100 metres from the shore. A line of mirrors reflects
 developing this method of growing food because heat from the sun onto a pipe which has oil inside.
 it could allow us to grow food in any climate – in The hot oil in the pipe heats up seawater, which
 Antarctica, the Sahara desert or even on Mars. You is kept in special containers. When the seawater
 might ask how this method of growing plants helps reaches 160 °C, the steam from this process provides
 with the problem of climate change. I mean, after all, electricity. Some of the hot water is used to heat
 it uses fresh water, which is a limited resource. the greenhouse during the cold desert nights. The
 An Australian company, Sundrop Farms, combined plants grow in the greenhouse – a building with glass
 hydroponics with solar energy. Traditional farming walls and a glass ceiling. The rest of the heated water
 uses between 60 and 80 percent of our planet’s fresh goes to a desalination plant. Desalination is when we
 water. However, Sundrop Farms doesn’t use fresh remove the salt from seawater to create drinkable
 water. It uses seawater. Sundrop Farms is only 100 water – that is, water which is clean and safe to drink.
 metres from the shore. A line of mirrors reflects heat The desalination plant can produce up to 10,000 litres
 from the sun onto a pipe which has oil inside. The of fresh water every day. The farmer adds nutrients to
 hot oil in the pipe heats up seawater, which is kept this fresh water and then grows fruit and vegetables.
 in special containers. When the seawater reaches To summarize, solar energy removes the salt from
 160 °C, the steam provides electricity. Some of the the seawater and the fresh water is then used inside
 hot water is used to heat the greenhouse during the the greenhouse, where the plants are growing.
 cold desert nights. The plants grow in the greenhouse Many people around the world are really excited
 – a building with glass walls and a glass ceiling. The about this technology. So far, Australian farms have
 rest of the heated water goes to a desalination grown tomatoes, peppers and cucumbers using
 plant. Desalination is when we remove the salt from hydroponics. Many supermarkets are interested
 seawater to create drinkable water – that is, water in buying these vegetables because they’re grown
 which is clean and safe to drink. The desalination without pesticides or other chemicals. Some people
 plant can produce up to 10,000 litres of fresh water think hydroponics is the perfect solution to the world
 every day. The farmer adds nutrients to this fresh food crisis.
 water and then grows fruit and vegetables. Finally, the desert farms use solar energy and not fossil
 To summarize, solar energy removes the salt from fuels, thus their negative effect on the environment
 the seawater and the fresh water is then used inside is minimal. Now, of course, the future of hydroponics
 the greenhouse, where the plants are growing. is unknown. But I think that desert farms might be a
 Many people around the world are really excited very interesting way to farm in the future. Now let’s
 about this technology. So far, Australian farms have discuss some of the problems …
 grown tomatoes, peppers and cucumbers using
 hydroponics. Many supermarkets are interested
 2.4
 in buying these vegetables because they’re grown 1 Today I want to explain some alternative solutions
 without pesticides or other chemicals. Some people which may help reduce some of the problems related
 think hydroponics is the perfect solution to the world to climate change.
 food crisis. 2 NASA scientists have been developing this method of
 Finally, the desert farms use solar energy and not fossil growing food because it could allow us to grow food
 fuels, thus their negative effect on the environment in any climate.
 is minimal. Now, of course, the future of hydroponics
 3 I think that desert farms might be a very interesting
 is unknown. But I think that desert farms might be a
 way to farm in the future.
 very interesting way to farm in the future. Now let’s
 discuss some of the problems … 2.5
 2.3 Host: Welcome to today’s debate on the advantages
 and disadvantages of nuclear energy. Some people
 An Australian company, Sundrop Farms, combined
 think that nuclear power is an environmentally
 hydroponics with solar energy. Traditional farming
 friendly source of energy because it creates less
 uses between 60 and 80 percent of our planet’s
 pollution than traditional power plants. However,
 fresh water. However, Sundrop Farms doesn’t use
 fresh water. It uses seawater. Sundrop Farms is only the opponents of nuclear energy believe that it has

204 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 more dangers than benefits. Debating this issue today Jack: I’m not sure about that. I think that building
 are Emma Martinez and Jack Sullivan. Thank you for nuclear power plants is the perfect solution for many
 joining us today to share your opinions about this poorer countries. Yes, it might be expensive to build
 important issue. the plant, but once the nuclear plant is there, the
Emma: Thank you. I want to argue that there are cost of the production of energy is very low. Plus, the
 many problems with nuclear power. It may be country can sell the electricity to its neighbours and
 true that there are very few accidents caused by improve its economy. It’s a long-term solution. And
 nuclear plants, but if there is an accident, then it it makes a country less dependent on oil and gas. At
 will be huge and it will have long-term effects on the moment, whenever oil or gas prices go up, it’s the
 the environment. For example, after the Fukushima poor countries and poor people who suffer. Some
 nuclear disaster in Japan, the government had to people think that solar and wind energy are greener
 tell people to leave their homes because of the than nuclear energy. But I don’t think that’s accurate.
 possibility of radiation. The radioactive material Wind turbines are not exactly friendly for birds, not
 spread to water and food, such as tea, milk, beef and to mention that solar panels and wind turbines take
 fish. For months after the accident, the Fukushima up a lot of space. They’re also very expensive and
 plant was dangerous. People will not be able to live in don’t last as long as a nuclear power plant. In short,
 the nearby area for the next 20 years. This is the big wind and solar energy can’t solve the problem of
 risk of building a nuclear power plant. In my opinion, climate change and they aren’t a good solution for
 it’s irresponsible for governments to allow nuclear poor countries.
 power plants to be built near cities. They’re just too Host: Thank you both very much. Let’s take some
 dangerous. questions from the audience …
Jack: I have to disagree. I think we should look at the
 bigger picture. Some people are worried that nuclear UNIT 3
 power is a big risk. And yet there are hundreds of The air travel revolution
 nuclear power plants all over the world and there
 Narrator: In the past 50 years we’ve done the
 have only been three major nuclear accidents in
 impossible – we’ve made the world smaller. Today
 the last 30 years. In fact, research shows that many
 we can travel from continent to continent in no time.
 more people die while working with coal, natural
 gas and hydropower – that is, electricity powered Paris and London are closer than ever before.
 by water. On top of that, nuclear power is the most North America and Europe are almost neighbours.
 environmentally friendly and the most sustainable And South America and Asia are less than a day away
 source of energy. In other words, it doesn’t damage from each other.
 the environment and there will always be enough of Trips that used to happen once in a lifetime now
 it. A nuclear power plant does not pollute the air, it’s happen weekly for many business people.
 relatively cheap and it can provide a huge amount How have we done this? By taking to the air.
 of electricity to our cities. And of course, our cities Aeroplanes have clearly revolutionized transportation.
 are growing … Military planes travel faster than the speed of sound.
Emma: I’m sorry, can I interrupt? Some people say Commercial planes, like the Airbus A380 and the
 that nuclear energy doesn’t pollute the air, but that’s Boeing 747, are much bigger than houses. More
 not completely true. It takes many years to build people travel by air than ever in history.
 a nuclear power plant. During this time, hundreds The airspace over London, for example, is among the
 of machines work day and night and pollute the busiest and most crowded in the world.
 air in the area. I don’t think it’s necessary to build Every day 3,500 flights take place overhead. And that’s
 nuclear power plants when we have safer and more just one city.
 environmentally friendly energy sources, such as In 2016, about 3.7 billion people travelled by plane.
 solar and wind energy. They’re cheaper and they’re And that number will likely continue to grow.
 unlimited sources of energy. Also they’re more The sky has become a place for us to work, rest
 affordable for most countries, when compared with and play.
 nuclear power. Building a nuclear power plant is not a
 And right now, around the world, over a million
 solution for poor or developing countries.
 people are travelling in the air above us.

 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 205
 3.1 a detailed record of each crash, which investigators
 check carefully.
 1 There has been an increase in motorcycle accidents
 over the past five years.
 Host: But for you, I suppose this training had the
 opposite effect. How did it influence you? Did it make
 2 Airlines are always looking for new ways to increase you afraid of flying?
 the safety of their planes.
 Mark: Uh-huh, the course had a strong impact on
 3.2 me. I actually became very scared of being on a plane.
 When I told my colleagues about it, they just laughed.
 1 There’s a detailed record of each plane crash.
 They couldn’t believe that I had completed the flight
 2 A machine called a ‘black box’ records everything the attendant training and now I was afraid to get on
 pilot and co-pilot say during a flight. a plane. What was I supposed to do? I decided to
 3 Some cities don’t permit cycling on the pavement. research it online and I read stories about people who
 4 I’m sorry, but you need an employee parking permit managed to control their fear of flying.
 to park in this garage. Host: Can it be cured?
 5 The company presents an award for road safety to Mark: Actually, like any phobia, there’s not always a
 the safest city. cure for it, but you can decrease its effects on your
 6 He received a new car as a present from his parents. life. You need to have the right attitude. You can
 achieve anything if you concentrate and stay positive.
 3.3 The advice I got was very useful, but it was a challenge
 Host: Have you ever been afraid of flying? Do and it took me a long time to get over my fear.
 you feel scared when you sit on a plane? Are you
 3.4
 stressed when there’s turbulence? If so, you may have
 aerophobia. The word aerophobia comes from the Host: Can you share some advice with our listeners?
 Greek and it consists of two parts: aero, which means Mark: Of course. Well, the first method to reduce
 ‘flight’ or ‘air’, and phobia, which means ‘fear’. People your fear is to learn more about how planes work.
 with aerophobia experience extreme fear or panic For example, many people believe that without the
 when they sit on a plane. In today’s programme, we’ll engines, the plane will simply fall down from the sky,
 discuss some steps which you can take to reduce but that isn’t true. The plane will stay up because its
 this fear. With me today is Mark Knowling. Mark used wings push against the air. A plane can fly without the
 to be a flight attendant who was afraid of flying. engines, and a well-trained pilot will be able to control
 He has written a book about his experience and it without power. All pilots learn how to fly without
 often gives presentations to help other people deal the engines.
 with their phobias. Can you tell us more about your Host: What about turbulence? Whenever I fly, I get
 experience, Mark? very scared during turbulence.
 Mark: Yes, sure. So I took a flight attendant’s course Mark: Well, turbulence can be dangerous, of course.
 right after college. My goal was to see the world and However, most turbulence is completely normal and
 I thought it would be a good job for me. I learned won’t cause any trouble, so you shouldn’t be afraid
 a lot more than I expected from the course. During of it. The only situation where it can cause problems
 the training, we studied a lot about air safety, but is when the aircraft is already damaged or during a
 there were also lectures about plane crashes. The storm. But, as you know, airlines study the weather
 instructors would tell us horrible stories of serious and won’t carry passengers if they think the weather
 problems – broken engines, birds hitting the aircraft, conditions aren’t safe for flying.
 hijackings and even stories of planes crashing in the
 middle of the desert or in the ocean.
 Host: Is there any other advice that you can give?
 Host: That’s terrible! Mark: Understanding where the emergency exits are
 may help you relax. Not knowing where an exit is and
 Mark: No, I don’t think so. They were trying to make feeling that you’re in a closed space can make you
 us take the job seriously. They would also discuss afraid. Finally, to reduce the fear of flying, you should
 the research done by air crash investigators to help avoid watching movies about plane crashes or other
 us understand the reasons behind air crashes. There’s accidents. Some researchers say that aerophobia is

206 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 caused by people watching too many disaster movies. drive to or from work, and there’s very little space
 I think we often forget that, compared to the many for cyclists. Many of the cycle lanes we have are too
 forms of transport that we use every day, air transport narrow and some of the busiest streets don’t even
 is actually very safe. have cycle lanes. What’s more, many drivers don’t
Host: In what way? have respect for cyclists. Cars sometimes even drive
 in the cycle lanes to pass other cars. Of course, if
Mark: Well, there’s research which compares the
 a car hits a bicycle, it’s going to injure or even kill
 number of accidents per number of miles travelled
 the cyclist.
 on each form of transport. We can see that by far
 the safest form of travel is air transport, and the most A second issue is storage. Many people don’t have a
 dangerous is using a motorcycle. In recent years, safe place to put their bicycles while they’re at work.
 there has been a significant decrease in the number They worry that if they leave their bicycle outside, it’ll
 of plane crashes. In contrast, cars are considerably get stolen. Also, it’ll get wet when it rains and might
 more dangerous. get damaged over time.
Host: Really? I didn’t know that. Thank you for your A third problem is that, for some people, cycling to
 advice, Mark. You can let us know what you think work isn’t convenient. Maybe they live far from their
 about air safety and share your stories by going to our job or maybe they sometimes work late and don’t
 website at www … want to cycle home in the dark. And a lot of people
 don’t like to cycle in the rain. What if you cycle to
 3.5 work and then later it starts raining? From my own
1 The course was a lot more challenging than I expected. experience, I can tell you that it’s pretty terrible to
2 We can see that by far the most affordable form of ride home during a storm.
 transport is walking. So, those are three of the biggest issues: safety,
3 The risks of driving a car are considerably more storage and convenience.
 significant than those of flying. 3.7
4 For me, flying is much more comfortable than
 Now I’d like to share some possible solutions. First,
 travelling by train.
 to improve safety, I’d suggest that police officers give
5 Taking a train is definitely more relaxing than driving. big fines to drivers who break the law by driving in a
6 Using the underground is a lot faster than travelling by cycle lane.
 bus at rush hour. Also, I’d like to see wider cycle lanes to allow more
7 Driving is considerably more expensive than walking. bicycles to pass at the same time. We should also add
8 Cycling is absolutely the healthiest form of transport. cycle lanes to busy streets which don’t have them
 yet. These proposals would prevent cars from hitting
 3.6 cyclists and would save lives.
 Hello, everyone. Thank you for being here today. As for the issue of storage, I think that city parking
 Welcome to the first meeting of Wheels to Work. garages ought to create special parking sections for
 As you know, the goal of this group is to make our bicycles. This would keep bicycles safe and dry while
 city more bicycle-friendly. Specifically, we’d like to people are working.
 make it easier for people to cycle to work. Cycling
 Finally, convenience. In my opinion, we should make
 to work is good for the environment and it provides
 it easier to take bicycles on public transport. For
 great exercise. And personally, I think it’s a lot of fun!
 example, we could put cycle racks on the outside of
 I’m hoping that we can work together to solve the buses. That way, people wouldn’t have to cycle at
 problems which can make it difficult for city residents night or in bad weather. And people who live far from
 to cycle to work. Today I’m going to talk about a work could cycle part of the way to work and take
 few of those problems and share some ideas for public transport the rest of the way. As a result, more
 solving them. people could cycle to work.
 So, the biggest issue is safety. A lot of people would Well, thank you again for listening to my ideas. I hope
 love to cycle to work, but they’re scared – they feel this is the beginning of a conversation about how we
 that it’s just too dangerous. This is because there’s can make this a great city for cyclists!
 a lot of traffic during rush hour, when most people
 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 207
 3.8 First, he makes the filling for the moon cakes.
 Here he is mixing butter with sugar. To that he will
 A: I’m really surprised by these statistics. I didn’t know
 add other ingredients to make a thick, sweet paste.
 that eating while driving is dangerous. I don’t think
 Now the chef is taking a yellow ball of filling and
 the government should do anything about it.
 wrapping it in a thin layer of pastry. Moon cakes
 Personally, I eat fast food in my car a few times a
 can have a number of different fillings. For example,
 week and I’ve never had an accident. And I’m not
 in more traditional recipes, the filling is made from
 convinced that driving while eating is a big problem.
 sweet red beans, and you will find half of a salty duck
 Have you ever eaten while driving?
 egg inside that.
 B: No, I haven’t. We should take this really seriously. Next, the chef takes a special wooden mould and
 I think it would be better if they closed drive-
 shapes each moon cake, one at a time. Each moon
 through restaurants. This is because they only
 cake has a decoration on top of it. Many different
 encourage drivers to buy food and eat it while
 patterns are used on moon cakes, including flower
 they drive. How can you focus on the road if
 patterns or Chinese letters. The decoration on top is
 you’re holding a big burger in your hand? It seems
 brushed with egg yolk. When baked in the oven this
 dangerous to me. What do you think?
 will turn a lovely golden brown.
 C: I completely agree. I think it would be much better Then, the moon cakes must be left for a day or two.
 if drivers weren’t allowed to eat or drink while they The butter from the filling will go into the pastry
 drive. From my own experience, I can tell you that layer and make it soft and delicious.
 it can be very dangerous. Last week, I bought some
 And here we have it, a sweet treat perfect with a
 coffee and something to eat on the way to work. As
 cup of refreshing tea, on the night of the full moon.
 I was driving, I had to brake suddenly and I spilled hot
 coffee over my legs. I almost lost control of the car. 4.1
 I think the police should give heavy fines if they see This Sunday on Book of the Week, we interview
 someone doing it. Dr Kevin Lee, the well-known anthropologist and
 D: OK, I understand, but it might be very difficult for author. In this podcast, he will tell us of his love for
 the police to see drivers eating, especially if they’re Cultural anthropology and we’ll discuss whether
 driving fast. The best thing would be to have more traditions are adapting to the modern world or
 cameras on the roads to record what drivers are dying out.
 doing. The reason for this is the police can check
 the videos to see who’s eating, who’s texting and so 4.2
 on. Then, I’d suggest that the police give the drivers Host: Welcome to this week’s book review. In
 points on their licence. If the driver has a lot of the studio with me is Dr Kevin Lee, professor of
 points, the police should take their car away for a Anthropology and author of the best-selling book
 few months. Changing Traditions in the Modern World. First of
 all, could you tell us what anthropologists study and
 UNIT 4 what your own area of interest is?
 Chinese moon cakes Dr Lee: That’s a good question! Anthropology, in a
 Narrator: The Mid-Autumn festival is celebrated general sense, is the study of humanity. I know that’s
 by Chinese people across the world. It is traditionally not very exact. That’s why we have many types of
 a harvest festival, to celebrate the rice and wheat Anthropology, like Linguistic anthropology and Social
 that has been grown that year, and it takes place on anthropology. My speciality is Cultural anthropology.
 the full moon. People get together with family and I study different cultures around the world and how
 friends to watch the moon, admire the lights and eat social and political changes affect these cultures.
 the traditional sweet of this festival – moon cakes. Host: And when did you first become interested
 Moon cakes are rarely made at home because the in Anthropology?
 recipe is quite complicated. Most people prefer to Dr Lee: I grew up in a multicultural home. My
 buy their moon cakes from a shop or a hotel. mother is American and my father is Korean. They
 Here at the famous Peninsula Hotel in Hong Kong, were both English teachers, so we travelled a lot.
 chef Yip Wing Wah shows how the cakes are made.

208 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 As a child, I lived in Japan, Thailand and Egypt. That’s Host: Hmm … I remember my grandmother working
 why I decided to study Anthropology. Growing up in for days to make food. She had a huge cookery book
 different cultures helps you realize that customs and which she got from her grandmother. Everything had
 traditions are often local. Things that are acceptable to be exactly as it was when she was a little girl.
 in one culture can be completely unacceptable in Dr Lee: That’s a good example of a tradition which
 another. However, despite some differences between has been replaced by technology. You can find any
 cultures, I have noticed that there are often more recipe you want on the internet. This means that
 similarities than differences between people. many people don’t need cookery books any more.
Host: And do traditions change? Another thing is that many families now go out
Dr Lee: Absolutely! Customs and traditions change all instead of cooking at home. In India, for example,
 the time. Some traditions die out because our way of families hire catering companies to provide food for
 life changes, but most traditions adapt. weddings or special occasions. In the United States, at
Host: As I understand it, that’s one of the main points Thanksgiving, which is one of the biggest celebrations,
 of your latest book. many families go to restaurants because they don’t
 want to spend their holiday working in the kitchen.
Dr Lee: Yes. My book is about the effect of modern
 technology on traditions around the world. It’s well Host: So people do continue their tradition of eating
 known that things such as electricity, the telephone a special meal – they just do it in a different way.
 and television have changed our lives significantly. Dr Lee: Yes. Traditions don’t always die out – but
 The introduction of these inventions into our lives customs and traditions do change and adapt to the
 has changed many of our customs. For example, in modern world.
 the past, families spent time playing board games or
 4.3
 listening to the radio in the evening. These activities
 would deepen family relationships. Now, due to 1 Anthropology, in a general sense, is the study of
 developments in technology, people spend more time humanity. I know that’s not very exact. That’s why
 interacting with other people over the internet. we have many types of Anthropology, like Linguistic
Host: Is that a bad thing? anthropology and Social anthropology.

Dr Lee: I don’t think so. There are people who 2 Some traditions die out because our way of
 complain about the changes that technology has life changes.
 brought to our lives. Personally, I think these changes 3 Now, due to developments in technology, people
 are fine. We still spend time interacting with other spend more time interacting with other people over
 people, but it’s not always face-to-face. the internet.
Host: In your book, you discuss how technology has 4 But now we don’t have to work so hard. This is
 changed the way we celebrate important holidays. because we have modern kitchens and supermarket
Dr Lee: That’s right. A simple example is sending food.
 cards or messages. In the past, people sent each 5 In the United States, at Thanksgiving, which is one
 other cards to celebrate important events, like an of the biggest celebrations, many families go to
 anniversary or a new baby. But now, more people restaurants because they don’t want to spend their
 send messages through social networking sites or by holiday working in the kitchen.
 text or email. Another example of changing customs 4.4
 is holiday food. A few generations ago, people spent
 I study different cultures around the world and how
 a lot of time and effort preparing special meals for
 social and political changes affect these cultures.
 celebrations. It was usually the women who did this.
 Some dishes could take up to a week to prepare. But 4.5
 now we don’t have to work so hard. This is because
 1 My book is about the effect of modern technology
 we have modern kitchens and supermarket food. We
 on traditions around the world.
 don’t have to spend endless hours making our own
 butter or bread any more. Everything is quicker and 2 People spent a lot of time and effort preparing
 easier now. special meals.


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 209
 3 Growing up in different cultures helps you realize that which could be spent on more important things.
 customs and traditions are often local. Also, all that time you spent shopping you could have
 4 We still spend time interacting with other people, but instead spent with the person you’re shopping for.
 it’s not always face-to-face. David: I couldn’t agree more. And it’s not just holidays
 5 In the past, people sent each other cards to celebrate which are a problem – personally, I think we give
 important events, like an anniversary or a new baby. too many gifts for other special occasions, too. Like
 when my sister graduated from university last year,
 6 Traditions don’t always die out – but customs and
 she got lots of gifts. And money, too. The focus was
 traditions do change and adapt to the modern world.
 all on opening gifts. I’ve heard that when people
 4.6 receive more than a few gifts, they usually can’t even
 remember who gave them which gift. Instead, why
 Gabriela: So, our assignment is to discuss customs
 not write letters of advice for the future? That would
 which have been changing recently – you know, how
 be more special.
 modern lifestyles have changed people’s behaviour.
 Any ideas? Gabriela: That’s a great idea!
 Yildiz: Hmm … Let me think. Well, holidays are one Yildiz: Sorry, I don’t agree. I doubt that graduates
 kind of custom. Can you think of any holidays which would be happy if we changed that custom! I think
 have changed? that graduation gifts are practical. Don’t young
 people need some gifts and money for starting their
 David: Oh, don’t talk about holidays! It reminds me
 new life? And they can always look at the gift and
 that Mother’s Day is in two days and I haven’t bought
 think of the person who gave it to them. I think it’s a
 a gift for my mum yet.
 nice custom.
 Gabriela: Yeah, I haven’t either. Who has time for Gabriela: I’m still really not convinced. I mean …
 shopping when we have so much work to do?
 David: I agree. I get tired of shopping for gifts. 4.8
 I actually don’t know why we have to get gifts for Gabriela: So, our assignment is to discuss customs
 every little holiday. Wouldn’t our mothers be just as which have been changing recently – you know, how
 happy if we just spent time with them – you know, modern lifestyles have changed people’s behaviour.
 made it a special event, like taking them out to lunch Any ideas?
 at a nice restaurant? How did this whole gift giving for
 Yildiz: Hmm … Let me think. Well, holidays are one
 every holiday tradition get started, anyway? It seems
 kind of custom. Can you think of any holidays which
 silly to me.
 have changed?
 Gabriela: That’s it! There’s our topic! How holidays David: Oh, don’t talk about holidays! It reminds me
 have become too commercial.
 that Mother’s Day is in two days and I haven’t bought
 4.7 a gift for my mum yet.
 Yildiz: Hold on, too commercial? I disagree. I like Gabriela: Yeah, I haven’t either. Who has time for
 giving gifts. I think that it shows that you were shopping when we have so much work to do?
 thinking of someone. David: I agree. I get tired of shopping for gifts. I
 David: Because you went out and got someone actually don’t know why we have to get gifts for
 some chocolate or jewellery or a scarf or something every little holiday. Wouldn’t our mothers be just as
 at the last minute? Everyone knows that people happy if we just spent time with them – you know,
 usually buy gifts because it’s an obligation, not made it a special event, like taking them out to lunch
 because they really want to. at a nice restaurant? How did this whole gift giving for
 every holiday tradition get started, anyway? It seems
 Yildiz: Well, you have to spend time thinking about silly to me.
 the gift and get something thoughtful, you know,
 personal. Like maybe the new book by their favourite Gabriela: That’s it! There’s our topic! How holidays
 author. have become too commercial.

 Gabriela: I see your point. But I’m not convinced Yildiz: Hold on, too commercial? I disagree. I like
 because then you have to spend money … money giving gifts. I think that it shows that you were
 thinking of someone.
210 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
David: Because you went out and got someone 4.10
 some chocolate or jewellery or a scarf or something
 I completely agree that holidays have become
 at the last minute? Everyone knows that people
 too commercial.
 usually buy gifts because it’s an obligation, not
 I absolutely disagree that we should stop giving gifts
 because they really want to.
 on Mother’s Day.
Yildiz: Well, you have to spend time thinking about I really think that we should give fewer gifts.
 the gift and get something thoughtful, you know,
 personal. Like maybe the new book by their favourite UNIT 5
 author.
 Childhood obesity
Gabriela: I see your point. But I’m not convinced
 because then you have to spend money … money Narrator: There are now three times as many
 which could be spent on more important things. people in the world who are obese than there were
 Also, all that time you spent shopping you could have in 1975. These days you are more likely to live in a
 instead spent with the person you’re shopping for. country where being overweight or obese kills more
 people than being underweight. The problems can
David: I couldn’t agree more. And it’s not just holidays
 begin in childhood, when bad diet choices and not
 which are a problem – personally, I think we give
 enough exercise become habits. Across the world,
 too many gifts for other special occasions, too. Like
 19% of children between the ages of 5 and 19 are
 when my sister graduated from university last year,
 overweight or obese. In the UK, people are looking
 she got lots of gifts. And money, too. The focus was
 for ways to deal with the problem from childhood.
 all on opening gifts. I’ve heard that when people
 They are looking at what happens during the school
 receive more than a few gifts, they usually can’t even
 day. This report shows how good teachers can help.
 remember who gave them which gift. Instead, why
 not write letters of advice for the future? That would Mr Clark: One, two, good steps, lovely, and again!
 be more special. Reporter: Laurence Clark is a PE teacher on a
Gabriela: That’s a great idea! mission, trying to revolutionize his lessons to
 encourage the kids to be more active.
Yildiz: Sorry, I don’t agree. I doubt that graduates
 would be happy if we changed that custom! I think Pupil 1: When you get fitter you also get healthier,
 that graduation gifts are practical. Don’t young people so you can get more muscles what make them
 need some gifts and money for starting their new stronger.
 life? And they can always look at the gift and think Reporter: I bet you like eating sweets and
 of the person who gave it to them. I think it’s a nice chocolates.
 custom. Pupil 2: Only on Saturday, my mum says.
Gabriela: I’m still really not convinced. I mean … Reporter: But with 1 in 10 children in the UK now
 obese, Mr Clark believes his role is now more
 4.9
 important than ever.
1 I couldn’t agree more. Mr Clark: If we can instil that confidence and get
2 How did this whole gift giving for every holiday them moving properly, and get that confidence
 tradition get started, anyway? It seems silly to me. about their body and self-efficacy, then I feel if
3 I agree. I get tired of shopping for gifts. they … as they get older, they’re more inclined to
4 I disagree. I like giving gifts. lead that healthy lifestyle, especially when they get
 to secondary school and so on.
5 But I’m not convinced because then you have to
 spend money … money which could be spent on Narrator: So teaching children good exercise
 more important things. habits can help. But eating habits are equally
 important. A recent study found that only 1.6% of
6 Instead, why not write letters of advice for the children’s packed lunches were as healthy as the
 future? That would be more special.
 meals provided by schools. The healthy boxes all
7 Sorry, I don’t agree. I doubt that graduates would be contained the traditional sandwich with a protein
 happy if we changed that custom! filling, such as meat or egg, and some salad. But
 98.4% of parents are filling lunch boxes with too

 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 211
 many snack foods and sugary drinks. Vegetables or genes are more important than our lifestyle. Of
 salad were found in only 1 in 5. Salty snacks, such course, I’m not going to give up exercising or start
 as crisps, were found in 60% of packed lunches. eating fast food every day. The research shows I
 The researchers understood that many find it should stay in shape because it makes me feel better
 difficult to pack healthy meals for their children – but I won’t allow fitness to take over my whole life.
 because of cost, lack of time or demands from their C: Well, first of all, I prefer to exercise and eat well.
 children. But, they said parents must control what What’s wrong with being healthy? I also think that
 their children are eating at lunch, for example by you won’t know whether or not you have the right
 weighing out small amounts. If adults do not do genes until you get sick. So why take the risk and be
 something to help children control their weight unhealthy? Also, don’t forget that you might get the
 soon, it looks certain that health problems caused flu or a cold much more easily when you don’t eat
 by being obese will continue to increase. healthy food or exercise. I’d say that it’s always better
 5.1 to have a healthy lifestyle. There’s no doubt that
 bad health habits increase the chances of getting a
 Host: Today we’re talking about the key to a long serious illness.
 and happy life. Recent studies of people who live to
 D: Oh, that’s great. So now we should all eat fast food
 be 100 years old have shown that a healthy diet and
 and stop exercising? I mean I look around and I see
 exercise may not be enough. In fact, many of the
 overweight children everywhere. No matter how
 people who celebrate their hundredth birthday have
 good their genes are, I’m sure that these children
 not eaten a healthy diet and have never exercised
 won’t be able to enjoy a long and healthy life unless
 regularly. This has led many people to believe that our
 they give up crisps, chocolate bars, sugary drinks …
 lifestyles are not important. What’s most important
 Well, it’s great that some people can live to be 100
 is that we have good genes. It seems that if you
 and do whatever they want in their lives, but I prefer
 have the right genes, then you’ll live for a long time,
 to be careful and take care of myself because I don’t
 whatever you do.
 know if I have good genes!
 5.2
 5.3
 Host: So, new research shows that having a healthy I’m really surprised about that.
 lifestyle is not the most important thing if you want
 I’m really surprised about that.
 to live a long life. We asked four people on the street
 for their reactions to this news. I’m really surprised about that!

 A: I think it’s great news! Most people think that if 5.4
 they eat healthy food and exercise a lot, they’ll live
 1 I’m really happy about this new research!
 forever. These people never drink coffee or sugary
 drinks. They spend hours working out in the gym 2 There’s no question that happy people live longer.
 or doing yoga. And none of this matters if you have 3 It’s ridiculous to get too worried about healthy eating
 the wrong genes. I think that the key to a healthy life and exercise!
 is to enjoy yourself. If you focus all your energy on 4 He certainly never went to a gym.
 what to do and what not to do, you’ll be unhappy 5 There’s no doubt that bad health habits increase the
 eventually. There’s no question that happy people chances of getting a serious illness.
 live longer. I’d much rather go out and have a pizza
 with friends than spend time in the gym. I’m really 5.5
 happy about this new research! 1 I think it’s great news!
 B: This research proves what I’ve known for a long 2 Oh, that’s great.
 time. It’s ridiculous to get too worried about healthy 3 What’s wrong with being healthy?
 eating and exercise! My grandfather lived until he
 was 95, even though he never exercised. He ate lots
 4 So now we should all eat fast food and stop
 exercising?
 of sugar and never ate vegetables. He was brought
 up in a different world. He had different habits. He 5 I’d say that it’s always better to have a healthy
 certainly never went to a gym. Yes, I’m sure that lifestyle.


212 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
6 Well, it’s great that some people can live to be improves our memory and thinking skills – so after a
 100 and do whatever they want in their lives, but I few days of cycling, your brain will be ready to learn.
 prefer to be careful and take care of myself because So, be kind to your body and your mind and come
 I don’t know if I have good genes! with us on an amazing adventure you’ll never forget!

 5.6 Presenter 4: Are you interested in alternative
 treatments? Have you ever wanted to explore
Presenter 1: Do you have problems focusing the secrets of traditional Chinese medicine? This
 on your work? Are you under a lot of stress? spring, join our six-month course in acupuncture – a
 Do you want to get more exercise while trying treatment for pain or illness which involves putting
 something new and exciting? If so, it’s time to take needles under the skin at special points on the body.
 up taekwondo! Taekwondo is great exercise. And The course covers the theory of acupuncture and
 as we all know, exercise is good for your health. practical skills in using needles. Acupuncture is known
 Taekwondo also has mental benefits – it has been to reduce pain, but it’s also a great alternative for
 shown to improve your concentration. In addition, people who want to lose weight in an easy way. Learn
 it makes you feel good about yourself. This martial more about the course and visit us on our open
 art was developed in Korea, and is now popular house days on the first Saturday of every month.
 around the world. Whether you are looking for
 physical well-being, increased confidence or a life UNIT 6
 with less stress, Black Belt Taekwondo has it all.
 Sign up now for a free introductory class, starting A helping hand
 on January the 15th. Anna Werner (reporter): Ask first grader Holden
 Mora how his new hand works and he’ll be happy to
Presenter 2: Would you like to improve your social
 demonstrate.
 life, your intellectual performance, your physical
 fitness and your team-building skills? Scientific Holden Mora: So when I bend my hand in like this,
 research has proven that team sports offer all it closes. When I bend it like this, it opens.
 of these benefits. Join us and take advantage of Anna Werner: At seven years old, he’s become an
 the many benefits of team sports. We’re a group expert on the workings of this novel device made out
 of energetic adults of all ages who get together of plastic for roughly $20.
 on Sunday afternoons to play football and we’re Holden Mora: It’s an amazing $20.
 always looking for new players to join in the fun.
 Anna Werner: It’s an amazing $20.
 Whether you’ve been playing football for years or
 want to take up a new sport, you’re welcome to Holden Mora: And normally, the materials cost a
 participate. Everyone can play – you don’t even lot. About, like, $1,000.
 need to try out! If you’re interested in learning Anna Werner: He’s right. Children like Holden,
 more about our group, check out our website at born without hands or fingers, in his case the fingers
 www.footballsundays.cup.com. Sign up today and on his left hand, often require custom prosthetic
 you can be part of a team as early as this weekend! replacements costing thousands of dollars. But this
 Hope to see you on the field soon! inexpensive device was created by a college student
Presenter 3: Hi, my name’s Angie Stratton and I’m using a 3D printer.
 the director of CultureCycle. CultureCycle is a new Jeff Powell: It builds it layer by layer.
 concept in travel: educational fitness touring! We Anna Werner: Senior Jeff Powell studies biomedical
 offer courses all over the world which combine engineering at the University of North Carolina at
 learning with exercise and travel. Each course has an Chapel Hill. He took on the project after learning
 educational theme, such as Brazilian cooking or the about Holden from one of his professors.
 history of Turkey. As a small group, we cycle from Jeff Powell: OK, try that now.
 place to place, stopping for several days in each
 location to rest, relax and do some hands-on learning.
 Anna Werner: He used instructions posted on the
 internet, called the Cyborg Beast, then customized it.
 Not only does this trip provide terrific exercise and
 The 3D printer builds the parts in under 24 hours. And
 a fascinating cultural experience, it’s the best way
 at the end, what you wind up with, is this.
 to learn. There’s no question that physical activity

 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 213
 Jeff Powell: Yes. Inventions and machines designed by medieval
 Anna Werner: Right. scholars made a great contribution to society and
 many are still in use today. And some of these
 Jeff Powell: Yes. So the way this works is it straps
 inventions are very common. For example, the first
 onto Holden’s hand and onto the end of his forearm.
 fountain pen was made in 953 in Africa. Before then,
 When he moves his wrist in, the fingers close. When
 people used bird feathers and ink to write with.
 he moves his wrist out, the fingers open.
 This method would often leave your fingers and
 Anna Werner: And, do that again. Do they have grip clothes covered with black ink. So the first fountain
 strengths? So, oh, they actually do have grip strength. pen had a small container with ink inside and did
 Jeff Powell: Yes. not stain people’s clothes or fingers while the user
 Anna Werner: His goal: for Holden to be able to do was writing. You can see a model of this fountain
 things the rest of us take for granted. pen in Room 11B. In the same room, you’ll find early
 examples of glasses. Glasses were invented in Italy in
 Jeff Powell: To be able to eat dinner while holding,
 the thirteenth century. No one knows who invented
 you know, a knife and a fork at the same time. To be
 them. The first glasses were held in front of the eyes
 able to grab onto his scooter or his bike with two
 or balanced on the nose. They were developed to
 hands. Maybe even, you know, swing a baseball bat if
 help people with bad vision to read. But let’s now
 we get it that strong enough. I don’t want him to be
 move on to some other inventions.
 limited by the condition that he was born with.
 In rooms 12A and 12B we have works by the great
 Anna Werner: So this isn’t just about a hand for
 medieval engineer, al-Jazari. Al-Jazari lived in twelfth-
 him, is it?
 century Turkey. His work The Book of Knowledge
 Jeff Powell: No, no. It’s about enabling him to do of Ingenious Mechanical Devices lists one hundred
 anything that he wants to do. different machines with instructions and diagrams
 Anna Werner: And the payoff for this amateur explaining how to build them. In this exhibition, you
 designer? When he picked up a cup, you were able to can see models of some of the devices which were
 say to yourself, ‘Hey, this worked.’ designed by al-Jazari. Here, you can see his mechanical
 Jeff Powell: Yes, yes. clocks. Water and weights make the clocks work.
 However, his most important invention was the
 Anna Werner: That had to be a great moment.
 crankshaft. The crankshaft is a long arm which allows
 Jeff Powell: Yes. It was nice to see it all pay off. machines to move in a straight line. It was first used
 Anna Werner: Powell has now started a for watering gardens and fields on farms. In more
 crowdfunding campaign to raise money so other kids modern times, a crankshaft is used in car engines.
 can get the device too. As we move along, you’ll find one of the most
 Holden Mora: Well, I’m actually really happy important inventions of medieval times. This
 because I think it’s true that once I get the best hand, invention has changed the history of the world in
 they’ll make more like it for those kids. And then ways that we can’t even imagine. It’s one of the four
 they’ll have the best kind of hand, too. great inventions of Chinese culture: gunpowder.
 Anna Werner: Eleven more children are already Gunpowder was invented in the ninth century
 waiting for their new hands. For CBS This Morning, by Chinese scientists who were trying to create a
 Anna Werner, Chapel Hill, North Carolina. powder which would make you live forever. They
 weren’t successful, of course, but their attempts
 6.1 led to the invention of fireworks and weapons.
 Welcome to the Museum of Science! The exhibition The first instructions on how to make gunpowder
 that we’re about to see is called Discovering were written in the eleventh century by Zeng
 Medieval Science. As some of you may know, the Gongliang, Ding Du and Yang Weide. The invention
 Middle Ages have often been called the ‘Dark Ages’. of gunpowder has changed the way we fight wars.
 During this tour, you will find out that they were not. It changed the outcome of many medieval battles
 The Middle Ages were an interesting time and they and affected the history of the world. Many people
 were full of scientific discoveries. During this time, think gunpowder is the most important invention in
 inventions and technology from India, China, North history. Now, let’s move to the next room, which is all
 Africa and the Middle East were brought to Europe. about medieval medicine …

214 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 6.2 The first app store was opened in 2008. By 2011, it
 was reporting over 10 billion downloads and people
1 Inventions and technology from India, China, North were using apps more than internet browsers on
 Africa and the Middle East were brought to Europe. their phones. And by 2017, an estimated 180 billion
2 The first glasses were held in front of the eyes or apps had been downloaded. These numbers have
 balanced on the nose. been growing ever since and they give us a good idea
3 The crankshaft is a long arm which allows machines to about how popular apps are and how quickly they’ve
 move in a straight line. developed. People from all over the world use apps
4 As we move along, you’ll find one of the most for entertainment, travel and communication. So,
 important inventions of medieval times. I’m going to briefly talk about how these apps have
 changed our lives.
 6.3 It’s hard to imagine life before smartphones and
1 The Middle Ages were an interesting time and they mobile phone apps – or, for those of us who are
 were full of scientific discoveries. old enough, to remember it. But let’s go ahead and
 make an attempt anyway. So, imagine for a moment
2 Inventions and machines designed by medieval
 that you’re taking a road trip in the days before
 scholars made a great contribution to society and
 smartphones.
 many are still in use today. And some of these
 inventions are very common. Weeks before the trip, you go to the bookstore or
 library to get some guidebooks about the places
3 Many people think gunpowder is the most important you’re going to visit. A few days before you leave,
 invention in history.
 you get some audio books to entertain you during
 6.4 the long trip. You go to a shop and buy some maps
 – yes, the paper kind. The day before the trip, you sit
 Good morning! In today’s lecture I want to discuss
 down at your computer and look up the directions
 an invention which has changed our lives. This
 and print them out. Then, you pack some of your
 product has made a huge difference in the way we
 favourite CDs to bring along. You also pack your
 work, travel, communicate and socialize with friends.
 camera – and your torch, in case your car breaks
 Can you guess what it is? I’m talking here about
 down. And you write down some phone numbers
 mobile phone apps. The word app comes from
 and addresses – of the friends you’ll be visiting and
 application. Traditionally, applications were used in
 the hotels where you’ll be staying.
 computers to help them perform better. However,
 with the invention of smartphones, the word app is While you’re driving, your passenger reads the
 used to refer to phone applications. In this lecture, directions to you and looks for street signs. If you get
 we’ll start by discussing the very first apps and their lost, you stop at a petrol station to ask for directions.
 development. We will then discuss how apps have You have to write them down on a piece of paper.
 changed our lives. Finally, we’ll focus on some of the OK, so I think you get the idea.
 most popular apps used by people today. Now let’s make a comparison with the same trip
 today. No books, no maps, no CDs, no lists of phone
 6.5 numbers, no friend giving you directions – the
 I’d like to start by talking a little bit about the first smartphone does it all! Think of the apps you’d use
 apps. These were included with each smartphone. just for that one trip. You’d read reviews and book
 These types of apps were placed in the phones your hotel with a travel app. The GPS would replace
 to help users access the internet, check emails, the directions and maps and your friend in the front
 send texts and so on. The first apps were designed seat. Of course, a music app would replace the CDs
 to increase efficiency at work and allow people and you could listen to podcasts, as well as audio
 to access important information. However, it was books. And, of course, you wouldn’t need to bring a
 the second generation of apps that really changed camera or a torch. Yes, we’ve certainly made a lot of
 things. These were downloadable apps. Users simply progress since the pre-smartphone days!
 downloaded apps from the internet and installed So, now I’d like to mention another important effect
 them on their phones. Since its introduction, the app of the invention of apps. It has created a whole new
 market has grown far beyond anyone’s expectations. IT sector. It is one of the fastest-growing industries

 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 215
 and there is a great need for skilled software a very sustainable brand you know because you are
 engineers. recycling, because you are doing your production
 But apps have also had some negative effects. For because you are employing local people.
 one thing, people have become more helpless This season we’re actually splitting the collection
 because they’re so dependent on their phones for into three sections. We have the Remade that
 information. For example, if they’re in a place with hopefully everyone knows and loves before, we’ve
 no phone signal, they’re not very good at asking got our lightweight fabrics, you know the parachute
 for and following directions. And apps have made and, erm … waterproof fabrics, but this season we’re
 people less patient because they expect to have also working in a new British erm … section of the
 information immediately. In fact, a recent study collection and that’s very much focused on, erm …
 found that 50 percent of smartphone users leave a incredibly good quality British milled wools.
 web page if it doesn’t load in 10 seconds. We’re actually doing my London Fashion Week
 OK, in the next part of the lecture, I’ll discuss some presentation at Aldwych Tube Station. It hasn’t
 of the most common apps in more detail … actually been used for proper underground, err …
 trains for 10 to 15 years now and so we’ll be getting
 6.6 in and doing a very different event, erm … it’ll be
 I would like to present an invention which has made multimedia, I’ll be presenting my new film. And for
 the way we organize our work easier. It’s a simple the first time I’ll also be working with um models
 invention and most of you have used it. It’s a small as well presenting the garments, erm … both men’s-
 yellow piece of paper which is known all over the and womenswear.
 world. It’s the Post-it® note. A Post-it® note is a piece Narrator: The ideas for Christopher’s designs come
 of paper with special glue on the back. Modern firstly from the old fabric or piece of clothing he’s
 Post-it® notes can be any colour or shape. Post-it® recycling. Then he adds ideas he gets from other
 notes are simple to use. You can stick them on places. He’s particularly interested in the military,
 anything and the note will stay in place. The notes adventure, outdoor activities and cultures that
 can be easily removed from any surface. First, I am come from cold places, like the Inuit. He connects
 going to talk about the history of this invention. Then, all these ideas in the different garments in each
 I will explain how it has made a difference in our lives. collection.

 UNIT 7 7.1
 Interview with College of Art graduate Clara: Do you have any ideas for our
 Christopher Raeburn research project?
 Narrator: Christopher Raeburn is a fashion designer Adele: I’ve been looking for an interesting topic, but
 with a difference. His clothes are both extremely to be honest, I haven’t come up with anything yet.
 fashionable and good for the environment, too. Can you give me a hand?
 He started making recycled fashion items from old Clara: Well, I’ve been reading about fashion of the
 military uniforms when he was at university. These future, new designs, new technology and all that.
 days, his recycled brand, Remade, is a fashion success,
 Adele: Do you mean the kinds of clothes that we’re
 and he is now making clothes from other spare
 going to be wearing in the future? I’m not really into
 military materials, such as parachute material.
 fashion …
 Christopher Raeburn: I’m based here in London
 in the East End, Hackney Wick, but err … originally
 Clara: Actually, it’s more about future fabrics and
 how we’re going to use them.
 I’m from Kent in southeast England.
 I … I never really set out to um to create an ethical Adele: Well?
 or sustainable brand. For me it’s just more about Clara: OK. I’ve found out that there are designers
 intelligent use of materials, it’s about um the fact who create eco-clothes.
 that I knew I wanted to do my production here Adele: Eco-clothes?
 in England and because I … I love the fabrics and Clara: Yeah. They’re clothes that are not only good
 I recycle the fabrics. Inherently, you’ve already got for the community but also environmentally friendly.


216 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 The designers make sure that the clothes aren’t Clara: Are you sure? It seems pretty complicated.
 made by people working in bad conditions. Local Adele: Yeah, I think it’ll be fine. I do think it’ll be
 workshops are set up so that people can earn a interesting and there are a lot of different articles on
 good salary. And eco-friendly clothing typically helps the topic.
 protect the environment, too, apparently.
 Clara: OK, let’s do it!
Adele: How do they work, exactly?
Clara: Well, there are fabrics that collect the energy 7.2
 from when you move. Then, the energy is converted 1 a I’ve been reading about fashion of the future.
 into electricity. b I have been reading about fashion of the future.
Adele: Interesting. So, a few years from now, we’ll 2 a That’s amazing.
 probably be using this fabric to charge our phones,
 b That is amazing.
 right?
 3 a I agree that it’s not very practical.
Clara: Well, as long as you keep moving, yes!
 b I do agree that it’s not very practical.
Adele: That reminds me of smart fabrics. I saw an
 exhibit about them at the science festival. Some 4 a I think it’ll be interesting.
 scientists are working on fabrics which can kill b I do think it’ll be interesting.
 bacteria and regulate body temperature.
 7.3
Clara: Wow! How does that work?
 1 I’ve been looking for an interesting topic, but to be
Adele: Well, these fabrics keep your body
 honest, I haven’t come up with anything yet.
 temperature the same in any kind of weather. And I
 read that they can be used to make sports clothing, 2 And eco-friendly clothing typically helps protect the
 which would help people who exercise in very cold or environment, too.
 very hot climates. 3 Well, these fabrics keep your body temperature the
Clara: Really? That is amazing. same in any kind of weather.
Adele: I’ve also read that there are other fabrics 4 Anyway, it looks like we’ve finally come up with some
 which can help reduce muscle aches and prevent us good ideas.
 from getting ill. 5 There are a lot of different articles on the topic.
Clara: Wow, that is so cool. You know, I saw a fashion 7.4
 show once where the designers used lights in the
 clothes. It was a dress made from lights. They change Host: In today’s show, we’ll be interviewing the
 colour as you move. talented fashion designer Aysha Al-Husaini. Hot on
 the heels of her fashion week show, Aysha’s new
Adele: But what was the point of that?
 collection is very popular in Doha. She got the
Clara: Well, I do agree that it’s not very practical.
 attention of the fashion world with her unique
 I don’t think many people are up for wearing a dress designs, which combine traditional Muslim fashion
 made of lights. It sounds like someone designed it just with French chic. Aysha, thank you for coming to
 for the fun of it. the studio.
Adele: I’m not a fan of that idea, to be honest. It’s Aysha: Thank you for having me.
 pretty over the top! As far as I’m concerned, a dress
 Host: First of all, can you tell me where you get your
 made from lights is useless. Anyway, it looks like
 ideas from?
 we’ve finally come up with some good ideas.
 Aysha: Well, I come from a Muslim family. My parents
Clara: Yeah, I agree. So, we have clothes which are
 are both from Qatar. I was born there, but then we
 environmentally friendly, clothes which help with our
 travelled a lot. I went to school in New York and I
 health and clothes which use technology. Which one
 went to a design school there. These days, I spend my
 should we focus on?
 time travelling between Qatar and the United States.
Adele: I like the idea of clothes which help people
 with health problems.


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 217
 7.5 trends in other countries. When you look at the works
 of other designers in China and India, you can see
 Host: How did you feel about growing up in New that many traditional styles are being reused by young
 York? designers. Above all, people like to be individuals and
 Aysha: Well, as a teenager in New York, I had a lot show their cultural roots – they like to show where
 of problems trying to dress in a modest way. For they come from.
 example, when you look at summer fashion in New Host: As I understand it, your designs are must-haves
 York, the trend is always to wear skirts, shorts and for Muslim women outside the United States as well.
 sleeveless shirts. I didn’t feel comfortable wearing Could you tell me more about that?
 them, but at the same time my friends thought it was
 strange to wear long sleeves and jeans in the summer.
 Aysha: Yes. In addition to New York and Paris, I sell my
 collection in big cities like Doha, Dubai and Abu Dhabi.
 So I’ve always tried to combine my culture with
 Another thing is that I also receive requests for my
 fashion. As a teenager, I would make my own clothes,
 clothes from women in Pakistan, Indonesia, Singapore
 like colourful skirts and scarves. I wanted my designs
 and Malaysia, so someday I might open stores there.
 to be individual. They were unique and, eventually,
 people admired my clothes rather than laughed Host: Well, I hope you decide to go for it! That would
 at me. make a lot of women around the world very happy.
 So, Aysha, thank you for coming to the studio today.
 Host: I see. So, do you know what ideas most people
 have about Muslim clothes? Aysha: It was my pleasure. Anytime!
 Aysha: Well, I think there’s a lot of misunderstanding 7.6
 about Muslim clothes. The thing is that when you say
 Host: In today’s show, we’ll be interviewing the
 Muslim fashion, people in New York think of a burka.
 talented fashion designer Aysha Al-Husaini. Hot on
 You know, like the blue or black cloaks which cover
 the heels of her fashion week show, Aysha’s new
 women from head to toe.
 collection is very popular in Doha. She got the
 Host: And could you explain what you think Muslim
 attention of the fashion world with her unique
 fashion is?
 designs, which combine traditional Muslim fashion
 Aysha: Let me give you an example. When I first with French chic. Aysha, thank you for coming to
 started at design school, my teachers would ask the studio.
 me strange questions, such as how I was going
 Aysha: Thank you for having me.
 to stay in the fashion business if I’m not going to
 design miniskirts or sleeveless shirts. But as far as Host: First of all, can you tell me where you get your
 I’m concerned, there is much more to fashion than ideas from?
 showing your body. There are millions of Muslim Aysha: Well, I come from a Muslim family. My parents
 women who live in the United States and Europe are both from Qatar. I was born there, but then we
 who want to wear fashionable clothes. There are also travelled a lot. I went to school in New York and I
 women who simply like to dress in a modest way. went to a design school there. These days, I spend my
 Host: So, are you saying that there is a need for time travelling between Qatar and the United States.
 fashionable clothes for Muslim women? Host: How did you feel about growing up in New
 Aysha: Absolutely. We want to be fashionable and be York?
 ourselves at the same time. My feeling is this: I want Aysha: Well, as a teenager in New York, I had a lot
 to create clothes which are modest, but at the same of problems trying to dress in a modest way. For
 time, give women confidence – clothes which allow example, when you look at summer fashion in New
 women to be themselves. York, the trend is always to wear skirts, shorts and
 Host: I see what you mean. So, how would you sleeveless shirts. I didn’t feel comfortable wearing
 describe your style? them, but at the same time my friends thought it was
 strange to wear long sleeves and jeans in the summer.
 Aysha: Well, many reviewers have described my style So I’ve always tried to combine my culture with
 as ‘traditional chic’, and I guess I’d agree with them.
 fashion. As a teenager, I would make my own clothes,
 What I think is that combining traditional with chic is
 like colourful skirts and scarves. I wanted my designs
 a huge area in fashion. I keep my eye on the fashion to be individual. They were unique and eventually

218 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 people admired my clothes rather than laughed Host: Well, I hope you decide to go for it! That would
 at me. make a lot of women around the world very happy.
Host: I see. So, do you know what ideas most people So, Aysha, thank you for coming to the studio today.
 have about Muslim clothes? Aysha: It was my pleasure. Anytime!
Aysha: Well, I think there’s a lot of misunderstanding
 about Muslim clothes. The thing is that when you say UNIT 8
 Muslim fashion, people in New York think of a burka. Workshops for entrepreneurs
 You know, like the blue or black cloaks which cover Reporter: When Marie LaQuerre got laid off, she had
 women from head to toe. an idea to make and sell a line of children’s novelties.
Host: And could you explain what you think Muslim Marie LaQuerre: My company name is actually
 fashion is? Goobity Goo.
Aysha: Let me give you an example. When I first Reporter: What she didn’t have was thousands of
 started at design school, my teachers would ask dollars to buy a laser cutter to create her products.
 me strange questions, such as how I was going
 to stay in the fashion business if I’m not going to
 Marie LaQuerre: That machine can do, like,
 everything, it seems like.
 design miniskirts or sleeveless shirts. But as far as
 I’m concerned, there is much more to fashion than Reporter: The day the iPad was announced, Patrick
 showing your body. There are millions of Muslim Buckley had an idea for a custom-made cover. What
 women who live in the United States and Europe he didn’t have was the expensive, computerized
 who want to wear fashionable clothes. There are also woodcutting machine he needed to produce a
 women who simply like to dress in a modest way. prototype. LaQuerre, Buckley and scores of other
 budding entrepreneurs have become members of
Host: So, are you saying that there is a need for
 TechShop in Menlo Park, California, a place for do-it-
 fashionable clothes for Muslim women?
 yourselfers, inventors and dreamers.
Aysha: Absolutely. We want to be fashionable and be
 ourselves at the same time. My feeling is this: I want
 Mark Hatch: We believe that every kitchen should
 come with compressed air, electricity and a vice.
 to create clothes which are modest, but at the same
 time, give women confidence – clothes which allow Reporter: Mark Hatch is TechShop’s CEO.
 women to be themselves. Mark Hatch: Most don’t. You know, people get to
Host: I see what you mean. So, how would you come here and use ours.
 describe your style? Reporter: Here’s the drill. Joining TechShop is a
Aysha: Well, many reviewers have described my style little like joining a health club, except here, for $100
 as ‘traditional chic’, and I guess I’d agree with them. a month, instead of running on a treadmill, you get
 What I think is that combining traditional with chic is to run industrial-strength machinery. Members have
 access to the latest in computer-assisted design and
 a huge area in fashion. I keep my eye on the fashion
 machine tools that would cost a fortune to buy.
 trends in other countries. When you look at the works
 of other designers in China and India, you can see Mark Hatch: We teach people in an afternoon how
 that many traditional styles are being reused by young to make things. We have a lot of entrepreneurs.
 designers. Above all, people like to be individuals and Reporter: With the tools at TechShop, Phil Hughes
 show their cultural roots – they like to show where developed a way to cool computer servers that could
 they come from. save vast amounts of energy.
Host: As I understand it, your designs are must-haves Phil Hughes: This pulls at it. All the heat is at the
 for Muslim women outside the United States as well. server, from the server to the lid.
 Could you tell me more about that? Reporter: For now, his company, Clustered
Aysha: Yes. In addition to New York and Paris, I sell my Systems, has its world headquarters at TechShop.
 collection in big cities like Doha, Dubai and Abu Dhabi. But a partnership with Emerson, the huge appliance
 Another thing is that I also receive requests for my manufacturer, could change that.
 clothes from women in Pakistan, Indonesia, Singapore
 and Malaysia, so someday I might open stores there.

 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 219
 Phil Hughes: They expect to sell thousands and So, what do millionaires do and what can we learn
 thousands of these things, which is going to make us from them? Well, millionaires are often financially
 very happy. savvy. To put it another way, they’re smart about how
 Reporter: And perhaps very rich? to save and spend money. The first important thing is
 that millionaires always have a good handle on their
 Phil Hughes: Well, yes. Why not?
 budget. In other words, they know how much they’re
 Reporter: For $100 a month another member spending. According to Holm, around 75 percent of
 is building a lunar landing module for an millionaires know exactly how much money they have
 XPrize competition. and they know exactly how much they spend on
 Man: Where else can I find someplace I can store my food, bills, clothes, etc. As a result, they don’t spend
 lunar lander? too much and they don’t get into debt. They can
 Reporter: Marie LaQuerre is now selling her products plan for the future and save their money. To sum up,
 online and in a few retail stores. Patrick Buckley’s iPad the lesson here is that you should never spend more
 cover is taking off and 30 people have been hired to money than you have!
 make it. Another surprising fact is that millionaires usually have
 Patrick Buckley: We’re on track to do between $3 simple lifestyles. They have nice houses and nice cars,
 and $5 million this year. but they don’t spend all their money on these things.
 In fact, most rich people stay in the same place for a
 Reporter: And TechShop is doing well too, expanding
 very long time and don’t live in big, expensive palaces.
 to eight more locations. Evidence that in America
 Indeed, according to John Holm, half of millionaires
 today, money may be tight, but ideas and ambition
 have lived in the same house for 20 years. Also, around
 are flowing freely.
 65 percent of millionaires live in homes which cost
 8.1 around the national average. Again, the important
 lesson here is to live within your means – that is, don’t
 In this week’s programme, I’d like to talk about a book
 spend more money than you have. If you spend all
 that has changed the way I think about money. It’s
 your savings on a luxury BMW, then you probably
 called The Secret of Being Wealthy. It was written
 aren’t rich – you just want to look rich. In fact, the
 by a business school graduate named John Holm
 study reveals that 86 percent of luxury cars are bought
 who decided to study the behaviour of wealthy
 by people who can’t afford them. Most rich people
 people. He paid close attention to what rich people
 don’t have bank loans – they only spend a small
 do: checking where they eat, what they buy, how
 percentage of what they have and they save or invest
 they live and so on. The results of his study were
 the rest.
 pretty surprising.
 Now here is an interesting fact. The study shows that
 8.2 most millionaires have very happy relationships. Not
 When you think of someone who is very rich, what only are they married, but they stay married for a long
 comes to mind? Most people think that rich people time. In John Holm’s opinion, this is very important
 live lavish lifestyles – that is, they drive very expensive because of the golden rule about saving money.
 cars, eat in expensive restaurants, own a yacht or live There is no doubt that it’s more difficult to save
 in big houses. But, as John Holm discovered, people money if you are single. One effect of being a couple
 who have money don’t actually do these things. Most is that it’s easier to save money. If there are two of
 millionaires actually seem to have ordinary lifestyles. you, it’s easier to pay attention to what money you
 In other words, they have normal cars, average houses have and what you’re spending.
 and so on. On the other hand, people who look And of course, people who don’t have huge bank
 rich – the people who drive the latest Ferrari or only loans and debts are happier. If you don’t have to worry
 wear designer clothes – may not actually be rich at about the monthly credit card payments, you’re less
 all. Instead, they have spent all their money trying to likely to buy things to make you feel better. People
 show off – showing other people that they might be with debt often spend more time shopping, just to
 wealthy. In other words, having expensive things is not make themselves feel happier, but real millionaires
 always a sign that someone is rich. don’t need to do this.


220 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
 So, what can we learn from the wealthy? The answer is The goal of paying students is to encourage them to
 surprisingly simple. Don’t spend more money than you finish their education and be able to get a good job in
 have. Don’t get into debt or take out bank loans. Pay the future.
 close attention to your money and don’t spend time Host: I see. Let’s hear from our first caller. Mariam
 trying to show other people that you’re rich. In John Hassan is the president of a medium-sized university.
 Holm’s opinion, being ‘wealthy’ is a feeling. That is, it Dr Hassan?
 doesn’t mean being rich or having millions. It means
 Dr Hassan: Hello. Yes, I recently read about this new
 being happy with what you have.
 programme and I really don’t think it’s a good idea. I
 8.3 understand that many students drop out of university
 because of financial problems. At my university alone,
1 Most people think that rich people live lavish lifestyles,
 the dropout rate is over 25 percent. However, will
 that is they drive very expensive cars, eat in expensive
 paying students really encourage them to continue?
 restaurants, own a yacht or live in big houses.
 In my experience, it won’t. Of course, the statistics are
2 In other words, having expensive things is not always a terrible, but I’m not confident that this programme
 sign that someone is rich. will solve the real problems – it may just cover them
3 On the other hand, people who look rich – the people up. I think the money would be better spent on
 who drive the latest Ferrari or only wear designer student services, like hiring additional professors and
 clothes – may not actually be rich at all. advisors. Two of the reasons why students drop out
4 As a result, they don’t spend too much and they don’t are stress and poor time management. Advisors can
 get into debt. help students learn to manage their time better. As a
5 There is no doubt that it’s more difficult to save consequence, students will do better at university and
 money if you are single. will be more likely to graduate.
6 So, what can we learn from the wealthy? The answer is Dr Burns: I can see your point, but we have already
 surprisingly simple. spent a lot on student services. I think that paying
 students to study will show them that we treat them
 8.4 like adults. It will give them a sense of responsibility.
Host: In today’s programme, we discuss the recent University students are young adults and so, when
 decision made by several universities to give students they have a choice between staying at university and
 money in return for good grades. Students will studying or going to work and making money, they
 be paid by the hour to take additional Maths and often make the wrong choice. They want to have
 Science classes. The students who improve their money so that they can buy things for themselves.
 grades and keep their grade average high will be given Besides, we don’t want to pay them a lot. I think we’re
 cash rewards at the end of each term. To discuss simply giving them an option: stay at university and be
 this new project, we have invited education expert paid or get a minimum wage job.
 Dr Michael Burns and we welcome your calls during Host: Christine Thorne is a parent with two children
 the programme. We’d like to hear your opinion: at university.
 Do you think university students should be paid for Mrs Thorne: Hello. I was very worried when I heard
 good grades? about this new programme. I realize that students
 8.5 need encouragement to stay at university, but are
 we going in the right direction? First of all, I feel that
Host: Dr Burns, thank you for coming today. Can you we’re sending the students the wrong message.
 tell us more about the project? Where does this idea
 Learning should be about studying new things and
 come from?
 being responsible. Personally, I think the students
Dr Burns: Thank you. Well, the idea of paying who aren’t interested in studying will simply take the
 students for their work isn’t new. For example, easy courses to keep their average grade high and
 students in Denmark are paid about ¤760 a month get the cash. I believe that we should focus more on
 to attend university. They receive the payments for rewarding excellent universities and teachers and not
 a maximum of six years, starting at the age of 18. on students who might be lazy.


 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS 221
 Dr Burns: These are all good points, but I don’t think
 that this view applies to all students. Not all parents
 are educated or interested in studying. They pass
 this bad attitude on to their own children. Then the
 children don’t see the benefits of learning. To change
 this image, we need to show them a good reason for
 studying.
 Host: Thank you. Let’s have a look now at some of the
 comments we’ve received during the programme.

 8.6
 Host: Dr Burns, thank you for coming today. Can you
 tell us more about the project? Where does this idea
 come from?
 Dr Burns: Thank you. Well, the idea of paying
 students for their work isn’t new. For example,
 students in Denmark are paid about ¤760 a month
 to attend university. They receive the payments for
 a maximum of six years, starting at the age of 18. The
 goal of paying students is to encourage them to finish
 their education and be able to get a good job in the
 future.
 Host: I see. Let’s hear from our first caller. Mariam
 Hassan is the president of a medium-sized university.
 Dr Hassan?
 Dr Hassan: Hello. Yes, I recently read about this new
 programme and I really don’t think it’s a good idea. I
 understand that many students drop out of university
 because of financial problems. At my university alone,
 the dropout rate is over 25 percent. However, will
 paying students really encourage them to continue?
 In my experience, it won’t. Of course, the statistics are
 terrible, but I’m not confident that this programme
 will solve the real problems – it may just cover them
 up. I think the money would be better spent on
 student services, like hiring additional professors and
 advisors. Two of the reasons why students drop out
 are stress and poor time management. Advisors can
 help students learn to manage their time better. As a
 consequence, students will do better at university and
 will be more likely to graduate.


222 VIDEO AND AUDIO SCRIPTS
